<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Sleeper</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Sleeper</h3>
			<p>Everything changed at ten-thirty the next morning.</p>
			<p>The bike skidded into view just past Bow and promptly got into an argument with its rider over how best to deal with a pothole the size of Arkansas. It was a late-model Kawasaki from just before the witch, and it had ground-effect stabilizers that made it virtually untippable; otherwise, both man and machine would have gone end-over-end into a solar-powered billboard that (even after all these years) flickered with dead-celebrity endorsements for Johnson &amp; Johnson immune boosters. Instead, the Kawasaki leaned sideways at some impossibly acute angle, righted itself en route, and slewed to a stop between Miri and a handful of feral children looking for freebies.</p>
			<p>Ken's white eyes appeared in the shadowy darkness of the gap in <i>The Gap</i>, behind the newcomer.</p>
			<p>The rider was all limbs and scraps, topped by a ragged thatch of butchered brown hair. Barely visible against a backdrop of grimy skin, a sparse moustache said maybe <i>sixteen</i>. "You the doctor with the missiles?"</p>
			<p>"I'm the doctor who's <i>interested</i> in the missiles," Taka told him.</p>
			<p>"I'm Ricketts. Here." He reached under a threadbare thermochrome jacket and hauled out a ziplock bag with some very dirty laundry wadded up inside.</p>
			<p>Taka took the bag between thumb and forefinger. "What's this?"</p>
			<p>Ricketts ticked off a list on his fingers: "Gauchies, a shirt, and one sock. They had to, you know, improvise. I had the only bag, and I was <i>way</i> over on another run."</p>
			<p>Laurie climbed out of the cab. "Tak?"</p>
			<p>"Hullo," Ricketts said. His mouth split in an appreciative grin; one tooth chipped, two missing, the rest in four shades of yellow. His eyes ran down Lenie like a bar coder. Not that Taka could blame him; out here, anyone with clear skin and all their teeth qualified as a sex symbol almost by default.</p>
			<p>She snapped her fingers to get him back to the real world. "What <i>is</i> this, exactly?"</p>
			<p>"Right." Ricketts came back to point. "Weg and Moricon found one of those canister thingies you put the word out about. It was leaking this shit all over. Not like, rivers of the stuff, you know, just like <i>sweating</i> it almost. So they soaked it up in that"—a gesture at the bag—"and handed it off to me. I've been driving all night."</p>
			<p>"Where's this from?" Taka asked.</p>
			<p>"You mean, where we found it? Burlington."</p>
			<p>It was almost too good to be true.</p>
			<p>"That's in Vermont," he added helpfully.</p>
			<p>Ken was suddenly at Rickett's shoulder. "There was a missile drop on Vermont?" he said.</p>
			<p>The boy turned, startled. Saw Ken. Saw the eyes.</p>
			<p>"Nice caps," he said approvingly. "I was into rifters myself back before, you know..."</p>
			<p><i>Rifters</i>, Taka remembered. They'd run geothermal stations way off the west coast...</p>
			<p>"The missiles," Ken said. "Do you remember how many there were?"</p>
			<p>"Dunno. Like, maybe four or five that I saw, but you know."</p>
			<p>"Were there lifters? Was there a burn?"</p>
			<p>"Yeah, someone said there might be. That was why we all scrambled."</p>
			<p>"But <i>was</i> there?"</p>
			<p>"I dunno. I didn't hang around. You guys wanted this stuff fast, right?"</p>
			<p>"Yes. <i>Yes</i>." Taka looked at the fouled, greasy wad in the bag. It was the most beautiful sight she'd ever seen. "Ricketts, thank you. You have no idea how important this could be."</p>
			<p>"Yeah, well if you really wanna be grateful how about a charge off your rig?" He slapped the bike between his thighs. "This thing is like down to the moho, I've got maybe another ten klicks and <i>—</i> or hey, is there maybe some kinda reward?"</p>
			<p><i>The reward</i>, Taka thought, unlocking the umbilical for Rickett's bike, <i>is that all of us might not be dead in ten years</i>.</p>
			<p>She fed the treasure into the sample port with tender reverence, let Miri slice away the packaging and squeeze the gold from the dross. And there <i>was</i> gold, evident as much in what <i>wasn't</i> there as in what was: ßehemoth was far below the usual baseline in this sample. Almost negligible.</p>
			<p><i>Something's killing the witch</i>. That initial explanation, that <i>validation</i> of a belief already grown from hope to near-certainty over the past weeks, threatened to squash all the scientific caution Taka's training had instilled in her. She forced caution onto her excitement. She would run the tests. She would do the legwork. But some squealing inner undergrad knew it would only confirm what she already knew, what this first glorious result suggested. Something was killing the witch.</p>
			<p>And there it was. Mixed in with the molds and the fungi and the fecal coliform, it glimmered like a string of pearls half-buried in mud: a genetic sequence that Miri's database didn't recognize. She brought it up, and blinked. <i>That can't be right.</i> She whistled through her teeth.</p>
			<p>"What?" Laurie asked at her elbow.</p>
			<p>"This is going to take longer than I thought," Taka said.</p>
			<p>"Why?"</p>
			<p>"Because I've never seen anything like this before."</p>
			<p>"Maybe we have," Ken said.</p>
			<p>"I don't think so. Not unless you've—" Taka stopped. Miri was flashing an interface alert at her: someone asking for download access.</p>
			<p>She looked at Ken. "Is that you?"</p>
			<p>He nodded. "It's the sequence for a new bug we encountered recently."</p>
			<p>"Encountered where?"</p>
			<p>"Nowhere local. An isolated area."</p>
			<p>"What, a lab? A mountaintop? The Mariana Trench?"</p>
			<p>Ken didn't answer. His data knocked patiently at Miri's front door.</p>
			<p>Finally, Taka let it in. "You think this is the same thing?" she asked as the system filtered it for nasties.</p>
			<p>"It's possible."</p>
			<p>"You had it all the while, and this is the first time you've shown it to me."</p>
			<p>"This is the first time you had anything to compare it with."</p>
			<p>"Sweet smoking Jesus, Ken. You're not much of a team player, are you?" At least it answered one question: now she knew why these two had hung around for so long.</p>
			<p>"It's not a counteragent," Laurie said, as if to gird her against inevitable disappointment.</p>
			<p>Taka called up the new sequence. "So I see." She shook her head. "It's not our mystery bug either."</p>
			<p>"Really?" Laurie looked surprised. "You can tell that after five seconds?"</p>
			<p>"It looks like ßehemoth."</p>
			<p>"It's not," Ken assured her.</p>
			<p>"Maybe a new strain, then. I'd have to grind through the whole sequence to be sure, but I can tell just by looking that it's an RNA bug."</p>
			<p>"The biosol isn't?"</p>
			<p>"I don't know <i>what</i> it is. It's a nucleic acid of some kind, but the sugar's got a four-carbon ring. I've never seen it before and it doesn't seem to be in any of Miri's cheat sheets. I'm going to have to take it from scratch."</p>
			<p>A look passed between Ken and Laurie. It spoke volumes, but not to her.</p>
			<p>"Don't let us stop you," Ken said.</p>
			<p>Miri could identify known diseases, and cure those for which cures had been found. It could generate random variants of the usual targeted antibiotics, and prescribe regimens that might keep ahead of your average bug's ability to evolve countermeasures. It could fix broken bones, excise tumors, and heal all manner of physical trauma. When it came to ßehemoth it was little more than a palliative center on wheels, of course, but even that was better than nothing. All in all, the MI was a miracle of modern medical technology—but it was a field hospital, not a research lab. It could sequence novel genomes, as long as the template was familiar, but that wasn't what it had been built for.</p>
			<p>Genomes based on <i>unfamiliar</i> templates were another thing entirely. This bug wasn't DNA <i>or</i> RNA—not even the primitive, barely-helical variant of RNA that ßehemoth hung its hat on. It was something else altogether, and Miri's database had never been designed to deal with anything like it.</p>
			<p>Taka didn't give a damn. She made it do that anyway.</p>
			<p>She found the template easily enough once she looked beyond the nuts-and-bolts sequencing routines. It was right there in a dusty corner of the biomed encyclopedia: TNA. A threose-based nucleic acid first synthesized back at the turn of the century. The usual bases attached to a threose sugar-phosphate backbone, with phosphodiester bonds connecting the nucleotides. Some early theoretical work had suggested that it might have played a vital role back when life was still getting started, but everyone had pretty much forgotten about it after the Martian Panspermians won the day.</p>
			<p>A novel template meant novel genes. The standard reference database was virtually useless. Decoding the new sequence with the tools in Miri's arsenal was like digging a tunnel with a teaspoon: you could do it, but you had to be really motivated. Fortunately Taka had motivation up to here. She dug in, knowing it would just take time, and maybe a few unavoidable detours down blind alleys.</p>
			<p>Too much time. Way too many detours. And what bugged Taka was, she <i>knew</i> the answer already. She'd known almost before she'd started. Every painstaking, laborious, mind-numbing test supported it. Every electrophoretic band, every virtual blot, every PCR and TTD—all these haphazard techniques stapled together hour after bloody hour <i>—</i> they all pointed, glacially, implacably, to the same glorious answer.</p>
			<p>And it <i>was</i> a glorious answer. So after three days, tired of the endless triple-checks and replicates, she decided to just go with what she had. She presented her findings near midday back at the cove, for privacy and the convenience of a ready charge.</p>
			<p>"It's not just a tweak job," she told the rifters. A lone bedraggled gull picked its way among the stones. "It's a totally artificial organism, designed from scratch. <i>And</i> it was designed to outcompete ßehemoth on its own turf. It's got a TNA template, which is fairly primitive, but it also uses small RNA's in a way that ßehemoth never did—that's an advanced trait, a eukaryotic trait. It uses <i>proline</i> for catalysis. A single amino acid doing the job of a whole <i>enzyme</i>—do you have any <i>idea</i> how much space that saves—?"</p>
			<p>No. They didn't. The blank looks made that more than obvious.</p>
			<p>She cut to the chase. "The bottom line, my friends, is if you throw this little guy into culture with ßehemoth it'll come out the winner every time."</p>
			<p>"In culture," Ken repeated.</p>
			<p>"No reason to think it won't do the same in the wild. Remember, it was designed to make its own way in the world; the plan was obviously to just dump it into the system as an aerosol and leave it to its own devices."</p>
			<p>Ken grunted, scrolling through Taka's results on the main display. "What's this?"</p>
			<p>"What? Oh, yeah. It's polyploid."</p>
			<p>"Polyploid?" Laurie repeated.</p>
			<p>"You know, haploid, diploid, polyploid. Multiple sets of genes. You mostly see it in some plants."</p>
			<p>"Why here?" Ken wondered.</p>
			<p>"I found some nasty recessives," Taka admitted. "Maybe they were deliberately inserted because of some positive effect they'd have in concert with other genes, or maybe it was a rush job so they just slipped through. As far as I can tell the redundant genes were just layered on to eliminate any chance of homozygous expression."</p>
			<p>He grunted. "Not very elegant."</p>
			<p>Taka shook her head, impatient. "Certainly it's a ham-fisted solution, but it's quick and—I mean, the point is it <i>works</i>! <i>We could beat ßehemoth</i>!"</p>
			<p>"If you're right," Ken mused, "it's not ßehemoth you have to beat."</p>
			<p>"The M&amp;M's," Taka suggested.</p>
			<p>Something changed in Laurie's stance.</p>
			<p>Ken looked unconvinced. "Possibly. Although the counterstrikes appear to originate with the North American defense shield."</p>
			<p>"CSIRA," Laurie said quietly.</p>
			<p>Ken shrugged. "At this point, CSIRA effectively <i>is</i> the armed forces on this continent. And there don't appear to be much in the way of centralized governments left to keep it in check."</p>
			<p>"Shouldn't matter," Taka said. "'Lawbreakers are incorruptible."</p>
			<p>"Maybe they were, before Rio. Now, who knows?"</p>
			<p>"No." Taka saw scorched landscapes. She remembered lifters on the horizon, breathing fire. "We take our orders from them. We <i>all</i>—"</p>
			<p>"Then it's probably just as well you kept this project so close to your chest," Lubin remarked.</p>
			<p>"But why would anyone—" Laurie was looking from Taka to Ken, disbelief written across her face. "I mean, what would be in it for <i>them?</i>"</p>
			<p><i>More than confusion</i>, Taka realized. <i>Loss, too. Anguish</i>. Something clicked at the back of her mind: Laurie hadn't really believed it, all this time. She had helped where she could. She had cared. She had accepted Taka's interpretation of events—at least as a possibility—because it had offered her an opportunity to help set things right. And yet, only now did she seem to realize what that interpretation entailed, the large-scale implications of what it was they were fighting: not ßehemoth after all, but their own kind.</p>
			<p><i>Odd</i>, Taka reflected, <i>how often it comes down to that...</i></p>
			<p>It wasn't just the end of the world, not to Laurie. It seemed somehow more—more <i>intimate</i> than that. It was almost as if someone had betrayed her personally. <i>Welcome back,</i> Taka thought to the vulnerable creature peeking again, at long last, from behind the mask. <i>I've missed you.</i></p>
			<p>"I don't know," she said at last. "I don't know who would do this or why. But the point is, now we <i>stop</i> it. Now we culture these babies, and we send them out to do battle." Taka pulled up the stats on her incubators. "I've already got five liters of the stuff ready to go, and I'll have twenty by morn..."</p>
			<p><i>That's odd</i>, she thought as a little flashing icon caught her eye for the first time.</p>
			<p>
				<i>That shouldn't—that looks like—</i>
			</p>
			<p>The bottom dropped out of her stomach. "<i>Oh,</i> <i>shit</i>," she whispered.</p>
			<p>"What?" Ken and Laurie leaned in as one.</p>
			<p>"My lab's online." She stabbed at the icon; it blinked back at her, placidly unresponsive. "<i>My lab's online. It's uploading—</i> God knows what it's <i>—</i>"</p>
			<p>In an instant Ken was scrambling up the side of the van. "<i>Get the toolkit</i>," he snapped, sliding across the roof towards a little satellite dish rising somehow from its recessed lair, pointing at the sky.</p>
			<p>"What? I—"</p>
			<p>Laurie dove into the cab. Ken yanked against the dish, breaking its fixation on some malign geosynchronous star. Suddenly he cried out and thrashed, stopped himself just short of rolling off the roof. His back was arched, his hands and head lifted away from the metal.</p>
			<p>The dish stuttered back towards alignment, stripped gears whining.</p>
			<p>"<i>Fuck!</i>" Laurie tumbled out onto the pavement. The toolkit spilled its guts beside her. She scrambled to her feet, yelled "<i>Shut it down, for Chrissakes! The hull's electrified!</i>"</p>
			<p>Taka stumbled towards the open door. She could see Ken wriggling back towards the dish on his back and elbows, using his diveskin as insulation. As she ducked her head to hop past the trim—<i>Thank God we disarmed the internals</i>—a familiar hum started up deep in Miri's guts.</p>
			<p>The weapons blister, deploying.</p>
			<p>GPS was online. She killed it. It resurrected. All external defenses were awake and hungry. She called them off. They ignored her. Outside, Ken and Laurie shouted back and forth.</p>
			<p>
				<i>What do I do—what—</i>
			</p>
			<p>She scrambled under the dash and pulled open the fuse box. The circuit breakers were clunky manual things, unreachable to any demon built of electrons. She pulled the plugs on security and comm and GPS. She yanked autopilot too, just in case.</p>
			<p>A chorus of electrical hums fell instantly silent around her.</p>
			<p>Taka closed her eyes for a moment and allowed herself a deep breath. Voices drifted through the open door as she pulled herself back up into the driver's seat.</p>
			<p>"You okay?"</p>
			<p>"Yeah. Skin took most of the charge."</p>
			<p>She knew what had happened. <i>What happened</i> again <i>,</i> she corrected herself, grabbing the headset from its hook.</p>
			<p>She was no coder. She barely knew how to grow basic programs. But she was a competent medical doctor, at least, and even bottom-half graduates knew their tools. She'd spared the med systems from disconnection; now she brought up an architectural schematic and ran a count of the modules.</p>
			<p>There were black boxes in there. One of them, according to the icon, even had a direct user interface. She tapped it.</p>
			<p>The Madonna hung in front her, not speaking. Its teeth were bared—a smile of some kind, full of hate and triumph. Some distant, unimportant part of Taka Ouellette's mind wondered at what possible selective advantage an app could accrue by presenting itself in this way. Did intimidation in the real world somehow increase fitness in the virtual one?</p>
			<p>But a much bigger part of Taka's mind was occupied with something else entirely, something that had never really sunk in before: this avatar had capped eyes.</p>
			<p>They <i>all</i> did. Every Lenie she'd ever encountered: the faces changed from demon to demon, different lips, different cheeks and noses, different ethnicities. But always centered on eyes as white and featureless as snowdrifts.</p>
			<p><i>My name's Taka Ouellette</i>, she had said an eternity ago.</p>
			<p>And this strange cipher of a woman—who seemed to take the apocalypse so <i>personally</i>— had replied <i>Le— Laurie</i>.</p>
			<p>"Taka."</p>
			<p>Taka started, but no—the Lenie wasn't talking to her. <i>This</i> Lenie wasn't.</p>
			<p>She slipped off the eyephones. A woman in black with machinery in her chest and eyes like little glaciers looked in at her. She didn't look anything like the creature in the wires. No rage, no hate, no triumph. Somehow, it was this expressionless, flesh-and-blood face that she would have associated with machinery.</p>
			<p>"It was one of—it was a Le—a Madonna," Taka said. "Inside the med system. I don't know how long it's been in there."</p>
			<p>"We have to go," <i>Laurie</i> said.</p>
			<p>"It was hiding in there. Spying, I guess." Taka shook her head. "I didn't even know they could run silent like that, I thought they always just—automatically tore things apart every chance they got..."</p>
			<p>"It got a signal out. We've got to go before the lifters get here."</p>
			<p>"Right. Right." <i>Focus, Tak. Worry about this later.</i></p>
			<p>Ken was at <i>Laurie's</i> shoulder. "You said you had five liters in culture. We'll take some with us <i>.</i> You disperse the rest. Drive into town, ring your siren, give at least a few mils to anybody who qualifies, and <i>get out</i>. We'll catch up with you later if we can. You have the list?"</p>
			<p>Taka nodded. "There are only six locals with wheels. Seven, if Ricketts is still around."</p>
			<p>"Don't give it to anyone else," Ken said. "People on foot aren't likely to get out of the burn zone in time. I'd also advise you to avoid mentioning the lifters to anyone who doesn't have an immediate need to know."</p>
			<p>She shook her head. "They <i>all</i> need to know, Ken."</p>
			<p>"People without transportation are liable to steal it from those who do. I sympathize, but causing a panic could seriously compromise—"</p>
			<p>"Forget it. Everyone deserves a heads-up, at least. If they can't outrun the flamethrowers, there are places to hide from them."</p>
			<p>Ken sighed. "Fine. Just so you know the risks you're taking. Saving a dozen lives here could doom a much greater number down the road."</p>
			<p>Taka smiled, not entirely to herself. "Weren't you the one who didn't think the greater number was worth saving in the first place?"</p>
			<p>"It's not that," <i>Laurie</i> said. "He just likes the idea of people dying."</p>
			<p>Taka blinked, surprised. Two faces looked back at her; she could read nothing in either.</p>
			<p>"We have to hurry," Ken said. "If they scramble from Montreal we can only count on an hour."</p>
			<p>The onboard lab could dispense product either fore or aft. Taka moved to the back of the MI and tapped instructions. "Lenie?"</p>
			<p>"Ye—" <i>Laurie</i> began, and fell suddenly silent.</p>
			<p>"No," Taka said quietly. "I meant what <i>about</i> the Lenie?"</p>
			<p>The other woman said nothing. Her face was as blank as a mask.</p>
			<p>Ken broke the silence: "Are you certain it can't get out again?"</p>
			<p>"I physically cut power to nav, comm, and GPS," Taka said, not taking her eyes off the woman in front of her. "I pretty much lobotomized the old girl."</p>
			<p>"Can it interfere with the culture process?"</p>
			<p>"I wouldn't think so. Not without being really obvious about it."</p>
			<p>"You're not certain."</p>
			<p>"Ken, right now I'm not certain about <i>anything</i>." <i>Although I'm</i> approaching <i>certainty about a thing or two...</i></p>
			<p>"It's living where? Reference and analytical?"</p>
			<p>Taka nodded. "The only systems with enough room."</p>
			<p>"What happens if you shut them down?"</p>
			<p>"The wet lab's on its own circuit. The cultures should be okay as long as we don't need to do any more heavy-duty analysis on them."</p>
			<p>"Pull the plug," Ken said.</p>
			<p>A heat-sealed sample bag, half-full of straw-colored liquid, slid from the dispensary and hung by its upper edge. Taka tore it free and handed it over. "Keep the diffusion disk uncovered or the culture will suffocate. Other than that they should be okay for about a week, depending on the temperature. Do you have a lab in your submarine?"</p>
			<p>"Basic medbay," Lenie said. "Nothing like this."</p>
			<p>"We can improvise something," Lubin added. "Can the diffuser handle seawater?"</p>
			<p>"Ninety minutes, tops."</p>
			<p>"Okay. Go."</p>
			<p>Ken turned and started down the beach.</p>
			<p>Taka raised her voice: "What if—"</p>
			<p>"We'll catch up with you afterwards," he said, not turning.</p>
			<p>"I guess this is it, then," Taka said.</p>
			<p>Lenie, still beside her, tried on a smile. It didn't fit.</p>
			<p>"How will you find me?" Taka asked her. "I don't dare go online."</p>
			<p>"Yeah. Well." The other woman took a step towards the water. A swirl on that surface was all that remained of her partner. "Ken's got a lot of tricks up his sleeve. He'll track you down."</p>
			<p>White eyes set into flesh and blood. White eyes, sneering out from the circuitry of Miri's cortex.</p>
			<p>White eyes bringing fire, and flood, and any number of catastrophes down on the innocent, all across North America. All across the world, maybe.</p>
			<p>Both sets of eyes called <i>Lenie</i>.</p>
			<p>"You—" Taka began.</p>
			<p>Lenie, the Word Made Flesh, shook her head. "Really. We gotta go."</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
