<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Corral</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" data-parent="division-2">
		<section id="chapter-2-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Corral</h3>
			<p>Taka cursed her own lack of foresight. They'd spread the word, all right. They'd told all who came by of their plan to save the world: the need for samples, the dangers of lingering afterwards, the places she'd patrol to take charge of vital payloads. They'd taken special note of those few who'd driven up in cars or motorbikes or even plain old pedal-powered flywheels, got addresses from those who still had them and told the rest to check back regularly: if all went well, they might save the world.</p>
			<p>And things <i>had</i> gone well, and then so horribly wrong, in such quick succession. They had their counteragent, or some of it anyway, but no prearranged signals to bring in the couriers. And after all, why would they have even bothered? They could have taken an afternoon and driven around the county. They could have waited for those of no fixed address to check in, tomorrow or the next day.</p>
			<p>And now Taka Ouellette had the salvation of the world in her hands, and some shrinking fraction of a sixty-minute window to get it to safety.</p>
			<p>She ran the siren continuously from one end of Freeport to the other, a shrieking departure from the music employed to announce her day-to-day presence. Hopefully it would summon the healthy as well as the sick.</p>
			<p>She got some of both. She warned them all to take shelter; she promised a mother with a broken arm and a son with incipient stage-one that she'd come back and help them when the fires had passed. She urged the others, as they fled, to send the Six her way, or anyone else with wheels to burn.</p>
			<p>After thirty minutes, one of them came by. After forty, two more; she loaded them all with precious milliliters of amber fluid and sent them running. She begged them to send the others, if they knew their whereabouts. If they could find them in time.</p>
			<p>Forty-five minutes, and nothing but a ragged handful of the hungry and the feeble. She chased them away with stories about fire-breathing dragons, sent them down to a fisherman's wharf that had once been the community's breadbasket. Now, if they were lucky, it might at least serve as a place from which to jump into the ocean; surely the flames wouldn't scorch the whole Atlantic?</p>
			<p>Fifty minutes.</p>
			<p><i>I can't wait</i>.</p>
			<p>But there were others here, she knew. People she hadn't seen today. People she hadn't warned.</p>
			<p><i>And they're not coming, Tak</i>.<i> If you want to warn them, you might as well start going door to door. Search every house and hovel within twenty klicks. You've got ten minutes.</i></p>
			<p>Ken had said they could <i>count</i> on sixty minutes. A minimum estimate, right? It might take longer, a <i>lot</i> longer.</p>
			<p>She knew what Dave would have said. She still had two liters of culture. Dave would have told her she could make all the difference, if she didn't just sit there and wait for the furnace.</p>
			<p>It might not happen at all. What were they basing this on, anyway? A couple of firestorms that happened to follow aborted missile attacks? What about the times when the missiles fell and nothing happened afterwards? There <i>had</i> to be times when nothing had happened. What about the times when the fires came, or the floods or the explosions, with nothing to presage them? Correlation wasn't causation...and this wasn't even strong <i>correlation</i>...</p>
			<p><i>It convinced Ken.</i></p>
			<p>But she didn't know Ken at all. Didn't even know his last name, or Laur—Lenie's. She would have had nothing but their own word that they were who they said they were, if they had even bothered to really tell her even <i>that</i> much. And now even their names were suspect. <i>Laurie</i> was not <i>Laurie</i> at all, it seemed.</p>
			<p>Taka only had their word on the things they had said, her own speculation on all the things they hadn't, and the disturbing similarities between this amphibious woman and the demons in the net...</p>
			<p>Fifty-five minutes.</p>
			<p><i>Go. You've done all you can here. Go.</i></p>
			<p>She started the engine.</p>
			<p>Committed, she didn't look back. She drove down the decaying asphalt as fast as she could without risking some pothole-induced rollover. Her fear seemed to increase in lockstep with her velocity—as though the diffuse and overgrown remains of Freeport and its pathetic, half-starved inhabitants had somehow numbed her own instinct for self-preservation. Now, abandoning them, her heart rose in her mouth. She imagined the crackle of flames advancing along the road behind her. She fought the road; she fought panic.</p>
			<p><i>You're going south, you idiot! We were south when the signal went out, south is where they'll start— </i></p>
			<p>She screeched east onto Sherbourne. Miri took the bend on two wheels. A great shadow fell across the road before her, the sky darkened abruptly overhead. Her imagination saw great airships, spewing fire—but her eyes (when she dared to look away from the road) saw only overarching trees, brownish-green blurs streaking the world on both sides, leaning over and blocking the afternoon sun.</p>
			<p><i>But no, that's the sun up ahead, setting.</i></p>
			<p>It was a great yellow-orange blob, dimmed by its slanting angle through the atmosphere. It was centered in the bright archway that marked the end of the tunnel of trees. It was setting directly over the road ahead.</p>
			<p><i>How can it be so late? It can't be so late, it's only aftern—</i></p>
			<p>The sun was setting.</p>
			<p>The sun was setting the trees on fire.</p>
			<p>She hit the brakes. The shoulder strap caught her around the chest, threw her back into her seat. The world grew ominously quiet: no more spitting clatter of rock against undercarriage, no more rattling of equipment on hooks, banging against Miri's walls. There was only the distant, unmistakable crackling of flame from up ahead.</p>
			<p>A containment perimeter. They'd started at the outside and moved in.</p>
			<p>She threw the MI into reverse and yanked hard on the stick. The vehicle skidded back and sideways, slewing into the ditch. Forward again. Back the way she'd come. The tires spun in the soft, muddy embankment.</p>
			<p>A <i>whooshing</i> sound, from overhead, like the explosive breath of a great whale she'd heard in the archives as a child. A sheet of flame flooded the road, blocking her escape. Heat radiated through the windshield.</p>
			<p><i>Oh Jesus. Oh God.</i></p>
			<p>She opened the door. Scorched air blasted her face. The seatbelt held her fast. Panicky fingers took way too long to set her free and then she was on the ground, rolling. She scrambled to her feet, bracing against Miri's side; the plastic burned her hands.</p>
			<p>A wall of flame writhed barely ten meters away. Another—the one she'd mistaken for the setting sun—was further off, maybe sixty meters on the other side of the MI. She sheltered on the cooler side of the vehicle. Better. But it wouldn't last.</p>
			<p><i>Get the culture.</i></p>
			<p>A mechanical groan, the bone-deep sound of twisting metal. She looked up: directly overhead, through a mosaic of leaves and branches not yet burning, she saw the fractured silhouette of a great swollen disk wallowing in the sky.</p>
			<p><i>Get the culture!</i></p>
			<p>The road was blocked ahead and behind. Miri would never be able to push through the dying woodlands to either side, but Taka could run for it. Every instinct, every nerve was telling her to run for it.</p>
			<p><i>The culture! MOVE!</i></p>
			<p>She yanked open the passenger door and climbed over the seat. The icons blinking on the cab's rear wall seemed almost deliberately slow to respond. A little histogram appeared on the board. It rose as slowly as a tide.</p>
			<p><i>Whoosh.</i></p>
			<p>The forest across the road burst into flame.</p>
			<p>Three sides gone now, one way left, one way.<i> Oh Jesus.</i></p>
			<p>The histogram blinked and vanished. The panel extruded a sample bag, swollen with culture. Taka grabbed it and ran.</p>
			<p><i>Whoosh</i>.</p>
			<p>Flame ahead of her, pouring from the heavens like a liquid curtain.</p>
			<p>Flame on all sides, now.</p>
			<p>Taka Ouellette stared into the firestorm for some endless, irrelevant span of seconds. Then she sank to the ground with a sigh. Her knees made indentations in the softening asphalt. The heat of the road burned her flesh. Her flesh was indifferent. She noted, vaguely surprised, that her face and hands were dry; the heat baked the sweat from her pores before it even had the chance to wet her skin. It was an interesting phenomenon. She wondered if anyone had ever written it up.</p>
			<p>It didn't really matter, though.</p>
			<p>Nothing did.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
