<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Decirculate</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Decirculate</h3>
			<p>Clarke had learned a fair bit at Ouellette's side. She was no doctor, but she still had the rudimentary medical training she'd received as a rifter and the MI did most of the diagnostic and prescriptive work anyway. Miri's exorcism had cost them a few thousand patient records, half a year's downloaded updates, and all the vehicle's uplink capabilities—but whatever remained still knew enough to scan a body and prescribe basic treatments. Clarke wasn't up to dealing with much more sophistication than that anyway; even lobotomized, Miri was hardly the rate-limiting step.</p>
			<p>People trickled through town, seeking Ouellette's ministrations but settling for Clarke's. She did what the machinery told her, played doctor as best she could. At night she'd sneak offshore and bypass <i>Phocoena</i> entirely, sleeping breathless and exposed on the bright, shallow bottom. Each morning she came ashore, stripped her diveskin down to the tunic and pulled Ouellette's borrowed clothing overtop. The strange dead fibers rubbed loosely against her limbs as she moved, an ill-fitting travesty full of folds and stitches. Removing the 'skin always felt a little like being flayed alive; this, this <i>substitute</i> might as well have been shed from the flanks of some great poorly-proportioned lizard. It wasn't too bad, though. It was getting easier.</p>
			<p>It was pretty much the <i>only</i> thing that was getting easier.</p>
			<p>The worst part wasn't her own medical ignorance, or the endless, rising count of those she couldn't save. It wasn't even the outbursts of violence that people sometimes directed at her when faced with their own death sentence, or with that of a loved one. She was almost grateful for the shouts and the fists, thrown too rarely to constitute any kind of real cost. She'd experienced far worse in her time, and Miri's weapons blister was always there when things got out of hand.</p>
			<p>Much, much worse than the violence of those she didn't save was the gratitude of those she nearly could. The smiles on the faces of those for whom she'd bought a little time, too dulled by disease and malnutrition to ever question the economics of trading a quick death for a lingering one. The pathetic delight of some father who'd seen his daughter cured of encephalitis, not knowing or caring that Seppuku or the Witch or some rogue flamethrower would take her next month or next year, not thinking of the rapes and broken bones and chronic starvation that would stalk her in the days between. Hope seemed nowhere more abundant than in the faces of the hopeless; and it was all she could do to meet their eyes, and smile, and accept their thanks. And not tell them who it was that had brought all this down upon the world in the first place.</p>
			<p>Her experiment with naked eyes was long since over. If the locals didn't like her affect, they could damn well go somewhere else.</p>
			<p>She wanted desperately to talk to Taka. Most of the time she resisted the impulse, remembering: Ouellette's friendship had evaporated the instant she'd learned the truth. Clarke didn't blame her. It couldn't be easy, discovering you'd befriended a monster.</p>
			<p>One night, lonely enough to gamble, she tried anyway. She used a channel that Desjardins had assigned for reporting any late-breaking Seppuku incidents; it got her to an automated dispatcher and thence to an actual human being who—despite his obvious disapproval over personal use of dedicated channels—patched her through to someone claiming to speak for a biological countermeasures lab out of Boston. He had never heard of Taka Ouellette. When Clarke asked if there might be other facilities she could check with, the man replied that there must be—but the goddamned Entropy Patrol never told them anything, and he wouldn't know where to point her.</p>
			<p>She made do by indulging in false hopes. Lubin would catch his prey. Desjardins would honor the deal they had made. They would track down the threat to Atlantis, and disarm it. And Taka Ouellette, or others like her, would solve the mystery of Seppuku and stop it in its tracks.</p>
			<p>Maybe then they could go home.</p>
			<p>She didn't even recognize him at first.</p>
			<p>He came staggering out of the woods on foot, limping, purple-skinned, his face a swollen mass of scabs and pulpy bruises. He wore a thermochrome windbreaker with one of the arms torn away, and he lurched into sight just as Clarke was about to shut down for the evening.</p>
			<p>"Hi again," he said. A bubble of blood grew and popped at the corner of his mouth. "Miss me?"</p>
			<p>"Holy <i>shit</i>." She hurried over and helped him towards the MI. "What happened to you?"</p>
			<p>"'Nother r. A <i>Big</i> r. Fucking <i>capital</i> r. Took my bike." He shook his head; the gesture was stiff and clumsy, as if rigor mortis were already taking hold. "That other K around? Taka?"</p>
			<p>"No. I'll look after you." She guided him to Miri's right mouth, took his weight as he sagged onto the extended tongue.</p>
			<p>"You really a doctor?" The teenager managed to look skeptical through all the gore. "Not that I care," he added after a moment. "You can check me over any time."</p>
			<p>Finally it sunk in: <i>Miss me</i>?</p>
			<p>Clarke shook her head. "I'm sorry, but I've seen a lot of people lately. I don't know if I'd recognize you even <i>without</i> all the facework."</p>
			<p>"Ricketts," the boy said.</p>
			<p>She stepped back. "You brought—"</p>
			<p>"I brought that stuff that's gonna kill Behemoth," he said proudly through cracked and puffy lips.</p>
			<p><i>You brought the stuff that's going to kill us all</i>, she thought.</p>
			<p>It shouldn't have been any kind of dilemma. Get him into the MI. Clean him up, fix the physical injuries, confirm the presence of any new predator eating him from the inside out.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Maybe he's clean. All the contaminated stuff was sealed up in that bag, maybe he never had direct contact—</i>
			</p>
			<p>Confirm Seppuku. Isolate the victim. Call for extraction.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Hope to God that if he's got it, he can't breathe it on me...</i>
			</p>
			<p>"Lie back. Get your feet up." She was at the rear panel almost before Ricketts had taken his feet off the ground. She stabbed the usual icon, heard the familiar hum as Miri swallowed. Clarke told the vehicle to close both mouths and run the standard diagnostic suite.</p>
			<p>She left him in there while she sprayed herself down with disinfectant. Overkill, probably. Hopefully. She was wearing the requisite sterile gloves, and the 'skin of her tunic protected her under Ouellette's borrowed clothing—</p>
			<p><i>Shit. The clothing</i>.</p>
			<p>She stripped it off and bagged it for incineration. The rest of her diveskin was in her backpack, stashed in the cab. The forsaken pieces, retrieved, wriggled back into place, seams sealing together into a comforting second skin. Diveskins weren't built with antipathogen properties explicitly in mind, but the copolymer dealt with salt ions as a matter of course; it <i>had</i> to keep out anything as large as a living cell.</p>
			<p>When she got back to Miri's rear panel, the diagnostic cycle had finished. Rickets was suffering from a broken cheekbone, a hairline fracture of the left tibia, second-degree concussion, borderline malnutrition (better than average, these days), two impacted wisdom teeth, and a moderate roundworm infection. None of that was life-threatening; most of it could be fixed.</p>
			<p>The diagnostic suite did not include a scan for Seppuku. Seppuku didn't exist in the standard database. Ouellette had cobbled together a hasty, separate subroutine in the wake of her discovery. It didn't do much—no helpful breakdown into first/second/end-stage categories, no list of associated macrosymptoms. No suggested course of treatment. Just a blood count, really. Clarke didn't even know how to interpret that simple number. Was there such a thing as a "safe" level for Seppuku?</p>
			<p>Zero, she assumed. She tapped the icon to start the test. Ricketts twitched in the little spycam window as Miri drank a few more drops of his blood.</p>
			<p>It would take a while to run the analysis. Clarke forced herself to focus on Ricketts's other problems in the meantime. The roundworms and the teeth could wait. Targeted vasodilators and calcium suppressants eased the concussion. Broken bones were almost trivial: plant microcharge mesh into the affected areas to crank up osteoblast metabolism. Clarke had been doing that almost since the day she'd become a rifter.</p>
			<p>"Hey!" Rickett's voice sounded tinny and startled through Miri's intercom. "I can't move!"</p>
			<p>"It's the neuroinduction field," Clarke told him. "Don't worry about it. It just keeps you from jerking around during the cut-and-paste."</p>
			<p><i>Beep</i>.</p>
			<p>And there it was. 10<sup>6</sup> particles per milliliter.</p>
			<p><i>Oh Jesus</i>.</p>
			<p>How long had he been wandering around in the woods? How far had he spread it? The person who'd beaten him up: was <i>he</i> spreading it now, had he invited Seppuku in through the raw oozing skin of his knuckles? How many days before he discovered how much he'd <i>really</i> paid for a lousy motorbike?</p>
			<p>
				<i>Isolate the vector. Call in a lifter.</i>
			</p>
			<p>A lifter. It seemed so strange to even contemplate. She had to keep reminding herself: <i>they're not monsters after all. They're not fire-breathing dragons sent down from the heavens to burn us out of existence. They're working for the good guys.</i></p>
			<p><i>We're on</i> their <i>side now.</i></p>
			<p>Still.</p>
			<p>First things first. Ricketts had to be—</p>
			<p>
				<i>decirculated</i>
			</p>
			<p>—isolated until someone came by to collect him. Problem was, there weren't too many ways to do that. The MI would be useless for other field work as long as it kept him sequestered, and Clarke seriously doubted whether Freeport had had hot-zone isolation facilities even before it fell into ruin.</p>
			<p>
				<i>He can't stay here.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She watched the monitor for a few moments, watched Miri's jointed limbs and laser eyes putting Humpty together again. Then she called up the anesthesia menu. She chose isoflurane.</p>
			<p>"Go to sleep," she whispered.</p>
			<p>Within moments, Ricketts' wide, nervous eyes fluttered closed. It was like watching a lethal injection.</p>
			<p>"<i>Do you know who I am, you miserable fetus-fucker?</i>" the demon spat.</p>
			<p><i>No</i>, she thought.</p>
			<p>"<i>I'm Lenie Clarke!</i>"</p>
			<p>The system crashed.</p>
			<p>"Yeah," Clarke said softly. "Right."</p>
			<p>She traded a dark view for a brighter one. <i>Phocoena</i>'s viewport looked out on a muddy plain, not quite featureless; the muddy tracks of tunneling animals, the holes of invertebrate burrows stippled the bottom. A lone crab scuttled lethargically in the dim distance.</p>
			<p>The ocean overhead was murky green, and growing brighter. The sun must be rising.</p>
			<p>"What...?"</p>
			<p>She hung the headset on the armrest and turned in the copilot's seat. <i>Phocoena</i> was too small to warrant a dedicated med cubby, but the fold-down bunk on the starboard side pulled double-duty in a pinch. It tucked away into the same kind of molded indentation that held the bunks on the opposite bulkhead; unlike its counterparts, though, its thicker base bulged from the wall in a smooth distension of plumbing and circuitry. When in use it folded down like a wide, short drawbridge, hung by twin monofilament threads spooled from its outer corners. Those threads, the edges of the pallet itself, and the overhanging bulkhead formed the vertices of a little tent. Isolation membrane stretched across the planes between.</p>
			<p>Ricketts was trapped within. He lay on his side with one arm flopped against the membrane, distending it outward.</p>
			<p>"Hi," Clarke said.</p>
			<p>"Where's <i>this</i>?"</p>
			<p>"We're underwater." She climbed back from her seat into the main cabin, keeping her head low; the curving hull didn't leave a lot of headroom.</p>
			<p>He tried to sit up. He had even less headroom than she did. "What am I, you know..."</p>
			<p>She took a breath. "You've got a—a bug. It's contagious. I thought it would be best to keep you isolated."</p>
			<p>His bruises were already healing, thanks to Miri's attentions. The rest of his face paled behind them. "The witch?" And then, remembering: "But I brought you that cure, right...?"</p>
			<p>"The cure wasn't—all we'd been hoping for," Clarke said. "It actually turned out to be something...else..."</p>
			<p>He thought about that a moment. He pushed his splayed fingers against the membrane. The membrane stretched, iridescing.</p>
			<p>"You saying...you saying it's like another <i>disease</i>?"</p>
			<p>"Afraid so."</p>
			<p>"So that explains it," he murmured.</p>
			<p>"Explains what?"</p>
			<p>"Why I been so weak the last coupla days. Prob'ly still have my bike if I'd been just <i>that</i> much faster." He frowned at her. "So you go around broadbanding how this germware kicks Behemoth's ass and how we're supposed to like, collect it and all, and it's really just another <i>bug</i>?"</p>
			<p>"Sorry," she said softly.</p>
			<p>"<i>Fuck</i>." Ricketts lay back on the pallet and threw one arm over his face. "Ow," he added, almost as an afterthought.</p>
			<p>"Yeah, your arm's going to be sore for a bit. You were pretty badly beat up, the MI can't fix everything just like that."</p>
			<p>He held up the limb and examined it. "It <i>does</i> feel a lot better, though. <i>Everything</i> feels better. Thanks."</p>
			<p>Clarke forced a smile.</p>
			<p>He was up on his elbows, looking from the smaller cage into the larger one. "This whole set-up isn't bad. Way better than that priestly meat wagon."</p>
			<p>It wasn't, of course. <i>Phocoena's</i> med facilities were rudimentary at best, far below what the MI could offer. "I'm afraid you'll have to stay in there for a while," Clarke said apologetically. "I know it's cramped, but the onboard's got games and shows, help you pass the time." She gestured at a headset hanging from the roof of the nook. "I can give you access."</p>
			<p>"Great. Better'n an oven."</p>
			<p>"Oven?"</p>
			<p>"You know." He tapped his temple. "Microwaves. Give you a fine buzz if you jimmy the doors and stick your head just so."</p>
			<p><i>Good trick</i>, Clarke mused.<i>Wish I'd known it when I was a kid.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>Then again, maybe I did...</i>
			</p>
			<p>"What if I have to shit?" Ricketts wondered.</p>
			<p>She nodded at a convex button set into the recessed bulkhead. "The pallet converts. Push that when you have to go. It's pretty straightforward."</p>
			<p>He did, then let out a little yelp of surprise as the midsection of the pallet slid smoothly away underneath him. His ass bumped down on the wide rim of the bowl beneath.</p>
			<p>"<i>Wow</i>," he whispered, impressed out of all proportion. Another press of the button and the pallet reintegrated.</p>
			<p>"So what now?" he asked.</p>
			<p><i>Now you get to be a lab rat. Now you'll go to some place where machines cut pieces out of you until either you die, or the thing inside of you does. Now, you'll be grilled on how long you hung around in Freeport, how many others you might have breathed on, how many others</i> they <i>might have. They'll find out about that asshole who beat you up and maybe they'll want to interview</i> him <i>. Or maybe not. Maybe they'll just decide it's already gone too far for pleasant interviews and nice individual extractions—because after all, if we have to sacrifice you to save Freeport, surely we also have to sacrifice Freeport to save New England now, don't we? That's the greater good for you, kid. It's a sliding scale. It's concentric.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>And nobody's life is worth shit when they slap it onto the table.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She'd roll the dice. Maybe hundreds would die in flames. Maybe only Ricketts would, in pieces.</p>
			<p>"Hello?" Ricketts said. "You here?"</p>
			<p>Clarke blinked. "Sorry?"</p>
			<p>"I said, what now?"</p>
			<p>"I don't know yet," she told him.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
