<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Confidence Limits</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" data-parent="division-1">
		<section id="chapter-1-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Confidence Limits</h3>
			<p>There are no rifter MDs. The walking wounded don't generally excel in the art of healing.</p>
			<p>Of course, there's never been any shortage of rifters in <i>need</i> of healing. Especially after the Corpse Revolt. The fish-heads won that war hands down, but they took casualties just the same. Some died. Others suffered injuries and malfunctions beyond the skill of their own off-the-shelf medical machinery. Some needed help to stay alive; others, to die in something less than agony.</p>
			<p>And all the qualified doctors were on the other side.</p>
			<p>No one was going to trust their injured comrades to the tender mercies of a thousand sore losers just because the corpses had the only hospital for four thousand klicks. So they grafted a couple of habs together fifty meters off Atlantis's shoulder, and furnished it with medical equipment pillaged from enemy infirmaries. Fiberop let the corpses' meatcutters practice their art by remote control; explosive charges planted on Atlantis's hull inspired those same meatcutters to be extra careful in matters of potential malpractice. The losers took very good care of the winners, on pain of implosion.</p>
			<p>Eventually tensions eased. Rifters stopped avoiding Atlantis out of distrust, and began avoiding it out of indifference instead. Gradually, the realization dawned that the rest of the world posed a greater threat to rifters and corpses alike than either did to the other. Lubin took down the charges somewhere during year three, when most everyone had forgotten about them anyway.</p>
			<p>The medhab still gets a fair bit of use. Injuries happen. Injuries are inevitable, given rifter tempers and the derived weakness of rifter bones. But at the moment it holds only two occupants, and the corpses are probably thanking their portfolios that the rifters cobbled this facility together all those years ago. Otherwise, Clarke and Lubin might have dragged themselves into Atlantis—and everyone knows where they've been.</p>
			<p>As it is, they only ventured close enough to hand off Irene Lopez and the thing that dined upon her. Two clamshell sarcophagi, dropped from one of Atlantis's engineering locks on short notice, devoured that evidence and are even now sending their findings up fiberop umbilicals. In the meantime Clarke and Lubin lie side-by-side on a pair of operating tables, naked as cadavers themselves. It's been a long time since any corpse dared give an order to a rifter, but they've acquiesced to Jerenice Seger's "strong recommendation" that they get rid of their diveskins. It was a tougher concession than Clarke lets on. It's not that simple nudity discomfits her; Lubin has never tripped Clarke's usual alarms. But the autoclave isn't just sterilizing her diveskin; it's destroying it, melting it back down to a useless slurry of protein and petroleum. She's trapped, naked and vulnerable, in this tiny bubble of gas and spun metal. For the first time in years, she can't simply step outside. For the first time in years the ocean can <i>kill</i> her—all it has to do is crush this fragile eggshell and clench around her like a freezing liquid fist</p>
			<p>It's a temporary vulnerability, of course. New diveskins are on the way, are being extruded right now. Clarke just has to hold out another fifteen or twenty minutes. But in the meantime she feels worse than naked. She feels skinned alive.</p>
			<p>It doesn't seem to bother Lubin much. Nothing does. Of course, Lubin's teleop is being a lot less invasive than Clarke's. It's only taking samples: blood, skin, swabs from around the eyes and anus and seawater intake. Clarke's machine is digging deep into the flesh of her leg, displacing muscle and resetting bone and waving its gleaming chopstick arms like some kind of chrome spider performing an exorcism. Occasionally the smell of her own cauterizing flesh wafts faintly up the table. Presumably her injury is under repair, although she can't really tell; the table's neuroinduction field has her paralyzed and insensate below the stomach.</p>
			<p>"How much longer?" she asks. The teleop ignores her without dropping a stitch.</p>
			<p>"I don't think there's anyone there," Lubin says. "It's on autopilot."</p>
			<p>She turns her head to look at him. Eyes dark enough to be called black look back at her. Clarke catches her breath; she keeps forgetting what <i>naked</i> really means, down here. What is it the drybacks say? <i>The eyes are the windows to the soul</i>. But the windows into rifter souls are supposed to have frosted panes. Uncapped eyes are for corpses: this doesn't look right, it doesn't <i>feel</i> right. It looks as though Lubin's eyes have been pulled right out of his head, as though Clarke is looking into the wet sticky darkness inside his skull.</p>
			<p>He rises on the table, oblivious to his own gory blindness, and swings his legs over the edge. His teleop withdraws to the ceiling with a few disapproving clicks.</p>
			<p>A comm panel decorates the bulkhead within easy reach. He taps it. "Ambient channel. Grace. How are you coming with those 'skins?"</p>
			<p>Nolan answers in her outdoor voice: "We're ten meters off your shoulder. And yes, we remembered to bring extra eyecaps." A soft buzz—acoustic modems are bad for background noise sometimes. "If it's okay with you, though, we'll just leave 'em in the 'lock and be on our way."</p>
			<p>"Sure." Lubin's face is expressionless. "No problem."</p>
			<p>Clanks and hisses from down on the wet deck.</p>
			<p>"There you go, sweetie," Nolan buzzes.</p>
			<p>Lubin drills Clarke with those eviscerated eyes. "You coming?"</p>
			<p>Clarke blinks. "Any place in particular?"</p>
			<p>"Atlantis."</p>
			<p>"My leg—" but her teleop is folding up against the ceiling as she speaks, its slicing and dicing evidently completed.</p>
			<p>She struggles to prop her upper body up on its elbows; she's still dead meat below the gut, although the hole in her thigh has been neatly glued shut. "I'm still frozen. Shouldn't the field—"</p>
			<p>"Perhaps they were hoping we wouldn't notice." Lubin takes a handpad off the wall. "Ready?"</p>
			<p>She nods. He taps a control. Feeling floods her legs like a tidal bore. Her repaired thigh awakens, a sudden tingling swarm of pins and needles. She tries to move it. She succeeds, with difficulty.</p>
			<p>She sits up, grimacing.</p>
			<p>"What're you doing out there?" the intercom demands. After a moment, Clarke recognizes the voice: Klein. Shutting down the field seems to have caught his attention.</p>
			<p>Lubin disappears into the wet room. Clarke kneads her thigh. The pins and needles persist.</p>
			<p>"Lenie?" Klein says. "What—"</p>
			<p>"I'm fixed."</p>
			<p>"No you're not."</p>
			<p>"The teleop—"</p>
			<p>"You have to stay off that leg for at least six more hours. Preferably twelve."</p>
			<p>"Thanks. I'll take it under advisement." She swings her legs over the edge of the table, puts some weight on the good one, gradually shifts weight to the other. It buckles. She grabs the table in time to keep from keeling over.</p>
			<p>Lubin steps back into view, a carrysack slung over his shoulder. "You okay?" His eyes are capped again, white as fresh ice.</p>
			<p>Clarke nods, strangely relieved. "Hand me that diveskin."</p>
			<p>Klein heard that. "Wait a second—you two have <i>not</i> been cleared for—I mean—"</p>
			<p>The eyes go in first. The tunic slithers eagerly around her torso. Sleeves and gauntlets cling like welcome shadows. She leans against Lubin for support while she dons the leggings—the tingling in her thigh is beginning to subside, and when she tries out the leg again it takes her weight for a good ten seconds before giving out. Progress.</p>
			<p>"Lenie. Ken. Where are you going?"</p>
			<p>Seger's voice, this time. Klein's called for reinforcements.</p>
			<p>"We thought we'd come for a visit," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>"Are you sure you've thought that through?" Seger says calmly. "With all due respect—"</p>
			<p>"Is there some reason we shouldn't?" Lubin asks innocently.</p>
			<p>"Lenie's l—"</p>
			<p>"Beyond Lenie's leg."</p>
			<p>Dead air in the room.</p>
			<p>"You've analyzed the samples by now," Lubin remarks.</p>
			<p>"Not comprehensively. The tests are fast, not instantaneous."</p>
			<p>"And? Anything?"</p>
			<p>"<i>If</i> you were infected, Mr. Lubin, it only happened a few hours ago. That's hardly enough time for an infection to reach detectable levels in the bloodstream."</p>
			<p>"That's a no, then." Lubin considers. "What about our 'skins? Surely you would have found something on the diveskin swabs."</p>
			<p>Seger doesn't answer.</p>
			<p>"So they protected us," Lubin surmises. "This time."</p>
			<p>"As I said, we haven't finished—"</p>
			<p>"I understood that Behemoth couldn't reach us down here," he remarks.</p>
			<p>Seger doesn't answer that either, at first.</p>
			<p>"So did I," she says finally.</p>
			<p>Clarke takes a half-hop towards the airlock. Lubin offers an arm.</p>
			<p>"We're coming over," he says.</p>
			<p>Half a dozen modelers cluster around workstations at the far end of the Comm Cave, running sims, tweaking parameters in the hopes that their virtual world might assume some relevance to the real one. Patricia Rowan leans over their shoulders, studying something at one board; Jerenice Seger labors alone at another. She turns and catches sight of the approaching rifters, raises her voice just slightly in an alarm call disguised as a greeting: "Ken. Lenie."</p>
			<p>The others turn. A couple of the less-experienced back away a step or two.</p>
			<p>Rowan recovers first, her quicksilver eyes unreadable: "You should spare that leg, Lenie. Here." She grabs an unused chair from a nearby station and rolls it over. Clarke sinks gratefully into it.</p>
			<p>Nobody makes a fuss. The assembled corpses know how to follow a lead, even though some of them don't seem too happy about it.</p>
			<p>"Jerry says you've dodged the bullet," Rowan continues.</p>
			<p>"<i>As far as we know</i>," Seger adds. "For now."</p>
			<p>"Which implies a bullet to dodge," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>Seger looks at Rowan. Rowan looks at Lubin. The number crunchers don't look anywhere in particular.</p>
			<p>Finally, Seger shrugs. "D-cysteine and d-cystine, positive. Pyranosal RNA, positive. No phospholipids, no DNA. Intracellular ATP off the scale. Not to mention you can do an SEM of the infected cells and just <i>see</i> the little fellows floating around in there." She takes a deep breath. "If it's not Behemoth, it's Behemoth's evil twin brother."</p>
			<p>"Shit," says one of the modelers. "Not <i>again</i>."</p>
			<p>It takes Clarke a moment to realize that he's not reacting to Seger's words, but to something on the workstation screen. She leans forward, catches sight of the display through the copse of personnel: a volumetric model of the Atlantic basin. Luminous contrails wind through its depths like many-headed snakes, bifurcating and converging over continental shelves and mountain ranges. Currents and gyres and deep-water circulation iconised in shades of green and red: the ocean's own rivers. And superimposed over the entire display, a churlish summary:</p>
			<p>Failure to converge. Confidence limits exceeded.</p>
			<p>Further predictions unreliable.</p>
			<p>"Bring down the Labrador Current a bit more," one of the modelers suggests.</p>
			<p>"Any more and it'll shut down completely," another one says.</p>
			<p>"So how do you know that isn't exactly what happened?"</p>
			<p>"When the Gulf Stream—"</p>
			<p>"Just <i>try</i> it <i>,</i> will you?"</p>
			<p>The Atlantic clears and resets.</p>
			<p>Rowan turns from her troops and fixes Seger. "Suppose they can't figure it out?"</p>
			<p>"Maybe it was down here all along. Maybe we just missed it." Seger shakes her head, as if skeptical of her own suggestion. "We <i>were</i> in something of a hurry."</p>
			<p>"Not that much hurry. We checked every vent within a thousand kilometers before we settled on this site, did we not?"</p>
			<p>"Somebody did," Seger says tiredly.</p>
			<p>"I saw the results. They were comprehensive." Rowan seems almost less disturbed by Behemoth's appearance than by the thought that the surveys might have been off. "And certainly none of the surveys since have shown anything " She breaks off, struck by some sudden thought. "They haven't, have they? Lenie?"</p>
			<p>"No," Clarke says. "Nothing."</p>
			<p>"Right. So, five years ago this whole area was clean. The whole abyssal Atlantic was clean, as far as we know. And how long can Behemoth survive in cold seawater before it shrivels up like a prune and dies?"</p>
			<p>"A week or two," Seger recites. "A month max."</p>
			<p>"And how long would it take to get here via deep circulation?"</p>
			<p>"Decades. Centuries." Seger sighs. "We know all this, Pat. Obviously, something's changed."</p>
			<p>"Thanks for that insight, Jerry. What might that something be?"</p>
			<p>"Christ, what do you want from me? I'm not an oceanographer." Seger waves an exasperated hand at the modelers. "Ask <i>them</i>. Jason's been running that model for—"</p>
			<p>"Semen-sucking-motherfucking <i>stumpfucker</i>!" Jason snarls at the screen. The screen snarls back:</p>
			<p>Failure to converge. Confidence limits exceeded.</p>
			<p>Further predictions unreliable.</p>
			<p>Rowan closes her eyes and starts again. "Would it be able to survive in the euphotic zone, at least? It's warmer up there, even in winter. Could our recon parties have picked it up and brought it back?"</p>
			<p>"Then it would be showing up here, not way over at Impossible Lake."</p>
			<p>"But it shouldn't be showing up <i>anywh</i>—"</p>
			<p>"What about fish?" Lubin says suddenly.</p>
			<p>Rowan looks at him. "What?"</p>
			<p>"Behemoth can survive indefinitely inside a host, correct? Less osmotic stress. That's why they infect fish in the first place. Perhaps they hitched a ride."</p>
			<p>"Abyssal fish don't disperse," Seger says. "They just hang around the vents."</p>
			<p>"Are the larvae planktonic?"</p>
			<p>"Still wouldn't work. Not over these kinds of distances, anyway."</p>
			<p>"With all due respect," Lubin remarks, "you're a medical doctor. Maybe we should ask someone with <i>relevant</i> expertise."</p>
			<p>It's a jab, of course. When the corpses were assigning professional berths on the ark, ichthyologists didn't even make the long list. But Seger only shakes her head impatiently. "They'd tell you the same thing."</p>
			<p>"How do you know?" There's an odd curiosity in Rowan's voice.</p>
			<p>"Because Behemoth was trapped in a few hot vents for most of Earth's history. If it had been able to disperse inside plankton, why wait until now to take over the world? It would have done it a few hundred million years ago."</p>
			<p>Something changes in Patricia Rowan. Clarke can't quite put her finger on it. Maybe it's some subtle shift in the other woman's posture. Or perhaps Rowan's ConTacts have brightened, as if the intel twinkling across her eyes has slipped into fast-forward.</p>
			<p>"Pat?" Clarke asks.</p>
			<p>But suddenly Seger's coming out of her chair like it was on fire, spurred by a signal coming over her earbud. She taps her watch to bring it online: "I'm on my way. Stall them."</p>
			<p>She turns to Lubin and Clarke. "If you really want to help, come with me."</p>
			<p>"What's the problem?" Lubin asks.</p>
			<p>Seger's already halfway across the cave. "More slow learners. They're about to kill your friend."</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
