<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Paranoid</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" data-parent="division-2">
		<section id="chapter-2-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Paranoid</h3>
			<p>Aaron had led to Beth. Beth had led to Habib, and Habib had led to Xander, and the whole lot of them had led to twenty thousand hectares of wasted New England countryside being put to the flame. And that wasn't all: According to the chatter on the restricted band there were at least three other operatives sweeping the field further south, Desjardins's preference for low profiles notwithstanding.</p>
			<p>Eight days now, and Seppuku was living up to the hype. It was spreading faster than Behemoth ever had.</p>
			<p>Xander had also led to Phong, and Phong was fighting back. Lubin had him cornered in the mouth of an old storm-sewer that drooled slimy water into the Merrimack River. The mouth was a good two meters in diameter, set into a concrete cliff perhaps three times that height. It had a tongue, a triangular spillway widening out towards the river, flanked by rising abutments that held back the banks to either side. The spillway constituted the only clear avenue of approach and was slippery with brownish-green scum.</p>
			<p>The mouth also had teeth, a grate of metal bars set a meter back from the opening. They kept Phong from escaping underground, and had forced him to fall back on his one high card: an antique firearm that shot bullets of indeterminate caliber. Lubin trumped him twice over on that score; he carried a Schubert active-denial microwave pistol that could heat flesh to 60°C, and a Heckler & Koch rapid-fire PDW that was currently loaded with mitigated conotoxins. Unfortunately there was way too much earth and concrete for the microwaves to penetrate from Lubin's present position, and getting a clear shot with the H&K would involve exposing himself on the slimy slope of the spillway.</p>
			<p>It shouldn't have mattered. Under normal circumstances it would still be the furthest thing from an even match, even granting Lubin's rusty marksmanship after five years. Even though Phong's refuge was in shadow, and the sun stabbed directly into Lubin's eyes whenever he peeked around the corner. Those all made the shot trickier, no question. Still. Lubin was a <i>professional.</i></p>
			<p>No, what really skewed the odds was the fact that Phong seemed to have a thousand bodyguards, and they were all attacking Lubin at once.</p>
			<p>He'd scarcely noticed them on approach: a cloud of midges hovering over a patch of resistant greenery on the embankment. They'd always been completely harmless in Lubin's experience. He'd dispersed them with a wave of his hand as he passed through, his attention on the concrete barrier that cut the riverbank just ahead...and in the next instant they'd attacked, a swarm of mosquito-sized insects with piranha-sized attitudes.</p>
			<p>They bit, and they distracted, and they broke both his concentration and his stealth. Phong, stealing a drink from the sewer, had seen him coming and squeezed off a near miss before ducking back under cover. He'd almost escaped entirely, but Lubin had plunged through the insectile onslaught to the edge of the drainage apron, just in time to trap his quarry back against the tunnel.</p>
			<p>"I'm here to get you to a hospital!" he called. "You've been exposed to—"</p>
			<p>"Fuck you!" Phong shouted back.</p>
			<p>A squad of dive-bombing insects attacked Lubin's hand, almost in formation; the little bastards had <i>followed</i> him. He slapped down hard. He missed his attackers but welcomed the sting of the impact. He unrolled the gloves from the wrists of his isolation skin and slipped them on, juggling the Schubert, then reached over his shoulder for the hood.</p>
			<p>The velcro tab on the back of his collar was empty. His hood was probably hanging off some low-lying branch in the woods behind him.</p>
			<p>And he was going up against someone who'd been exposed to Seppuku for two full days. Lubin allowed himself a muttered, "<i>Shit</i>."</p>
			<p>"I don't want to hurt you!" he tried again. Which wasn't exactly true, and getting less so. The desire to kill <i>something</i> was certainly circling around his self-control. More insects attacked; he crushed them between hand and forearm, and reached to wipe the smashed body parts off against the river bank. He paused, briefly distracted: it was hard to be certain, but those crushed bodies seemed to have too many legs.</p>
			<p>He wiped them off and focused on the immediate task. "You're coming with me," he called, his voice raised but level. "That's not up for discussion." <i> Insects have—right. Six legs</i>. He waved off another assault; a line of pinpricks lit up the back of his neck. "The only issue is whether you come now or later."</p>
			<p>"<i>Later, stumpfuck!</i> <i>I know whose side </i> you <i> on!</i>"</p>
			<p>"We can also discuss whether I'll be taking you to a hospital or a crematorium," Lubin muttered.</p>
			<p>A squadron targeted his face. He slapped his forehead, hard. His hand came away with three tiny carcasses flattened against the palm. Each had eight legs.</p>
			<p><i>What has eight legs? Spiders? Flying spiders?</i></p>
			<p><i>Hunting in packs?</i></p>
			<p>He wiped his palm against a patch of convenient vines matting the embankment. The vines squirmed at his touch.</p>
			<p>He pulled his hand back instinctively, shocked. <i>What the—</i></p>
			<p>Tweaked, obviously. Or some kind of accidental hybrid. The foliage clenched and relaxed in peristaltic waves.</p>
			<p><i>Focus. Keep on track.</i></p>
			<p>More dive-bombers. Not quite so many this time. Maybe he'd swatted most of the swarm already. He felt as if he'd swatted a hundred swarms.</p>
			<p>A scrabbling, from beyond the barrier.</p>
			<p>Lubin peeked around the abutment. Phong was making a break for it, scrambling along a dry strip of concrete edging the far side of the spillway. Startling graffiti decorated the wall behind him, a stylized female face with white featureless eyes and a zigzag moniker: MM.</p>
			<p>Phong saw him, fired three wild rounds. Lubin didn't even bother to duck; his microwave was already set on wide beam, too diffuse for a quick kill but easily strong enough to reheat Phong's last meal along with most of the gastrointestinal tract that was holding it. Phong doubled over, retching, to land on the thin skin of wastewater and the frictionless slime beneath it. He slid diagonally down the spillway, out of control. Lubin put one foot on a convenient dry patch and leaned out to catch him as he passed.</p>
			<p>The Airborne Spider Brigade chose that exact moment for its last hurrah.</p>
			<p>Suddenly Lubin's face and neck were wrapped in stinging nettles. Overextended, he struggled for balance. Phong sailed past; one flailing leg careened against Lubin's ankle. Lubin went over like a pile of very angry bricks.</p>
			<p>They slid off the spillway into freefall.</p>
			<p>It wasn't a long drop, but it was a hard landing. The Merrimack was a mere shadow of its former self; they landed not in water but on a broken mosaic of shale and cracked mud, barely moistened by the outfall. Lubin got some slight satisfaction from the fact that Phong landed underneath him.</p>
			<p>Phong threw up again on impact.</p>
			<p>Lubin rolled away and stood, wiping vomit from his face. Shards of shale snapped and slipped beneath his feet. His face and neck and hands itched maddeningly. (At least he seemed to have finally shaken the kamikaze arthropods.) His right forearm was skinned and oozing, the supposedly-unbreachable isolation membrane ripped from palm to elbow. A knife-edged splinter of stone, the size of his thumb, lay embedded in the heel of his hand. He pulled it free. The jolt that shot up his forearm felt almost electrical. Blood welled from the gash. Mopping at the gore revealed clumped particles of fatty tissue, like clusters of ivory pinheads, deep in the breach.</p>
			<p>The microwave pistol lay on the scree a few meters away. He retrieved it, wincing.</p>
			<p>Phong still lay on his back, winded, bruised, his left leg twisted at an angle impossible to reconcile with the premise of an intact tibia. His skin reddened as Lubin watched, small blisters rising on his face in the wake of the microwave burst. Phong was in bad shape.</p>
			<p>"Not bad enough," Lubin remarked, looking down at him.</p>
			<p>Phong looked up through glazed eyes and muttered something like <i>Wha...</i></p>
			<p><i>You were not worth the trouble</i>, Lubin thought. <i>There was no excuse for me to even break a sweat over the likes of you. You're nothing. You're less than nothing. How dare you get so lucky. How dare you piss me off like this.</i></p>
			<p>He kicked Phong in the ribs. One broke with a satisfying snap.</p>
			<p>Phong yelped.</p>
			<p>"<i>Shhh</i>," Lubin murmured soothingly. He brought the heel of his boot down on Phong's outstretched hand, ground it back and forth. Phong screamed.</p>
			<p>Lubin spent a moment contemplating Phong's right leg—the intact one—but decided to leave it unbroken. There was a certain aesthetic in the asymmetry. Instead, he brought his foot down again, hard, on the broken left one.</p>
			<p>Phong screamed and fainted, escaping into brief oblivion. It didn't matter; Lubin's hard-on had been assured with the first snapping bone.</p>
			<p><i>Go on</i>, he urged himself.</p>
			<p>He walked unhurriedly around the broken man until he found himself next to Phong's head. Experimentally, he lifted his foot.</p>
			<p><i>Go on.</i> <i>It doesn't matter. Nobody cares</i>.</p>
			<p>But he had rules. They weren't nearly so inviolable as when he'd been Guilt Tripped, but in a way that was the whole point. To make his own decisions. To follow his own algorithm. To prove he didn't have to give in, to prove he was stronger than his impulses.</p>
			<p><i>Prove it to who? Who's here to care?</i> But he already knew the answer.</p>
			<p><i>It's not his fault. It's yours.</i></p>
			<p>Lubin sighed. He lowered his foot, and waited.</p>
			<p>"A man named Xander gave you a vial," he said calmly, squatting at Phong's side a half-hour later.</p>
			<p>Phong stared wide-eyed and shook his head. He did not seem pleased to be back in the real world. "Please...don't—"</p>
			<p>"You were told that it contained a counteragent, that it would kill off Behemoth if it was disseminated widely enough. I thought so myself, at first. I understand that you were only trying to do the right thing." Lubin leaned in close. "Are you following me, Phong?"</p>
			<p>Phong gulped and nodded.</p>
			<p>Lubin stood. "We were both misinformed. The vial you were given will only make things worse. If you hadn't been so busy trying to kill me you could have saved us both a lot—" A sudden thought occurred to him. "Just out of interest, why <i>were</i> you trying to kill me?"</p>
			<p>Phong looked torn.</p>
			<p>"I'd really like to know," Lubin said, without the slightest trace of threat in his voice.</p>
			<p>"You—they <i>said</i> people trying to stop the cure," Phong blurted.</p>
			<p>"Who?"</p>
			<p>"Just people. On the radio." Alone, helpless, half his bones broken, and still he was trying to protect his contacts. <i>Not bad</i>, Lubin had to admit.</p>
			<p>"We're not," he said. "And if you had been in touch with Xander and Aaron and their friends lately, you'd know that for yourself. They're very sick."</p>
			<p>"No." It was probably meant to be a protest, but Phong didn't seem able to put any conviction into the word.</p>
			<p>"I need to know what you did with that vial," Lubin said.</p>
			<p>"I...I ate it," Phong managed.</p>
			<p>"You ate it. You mean, you drank the contents."</p>
			<p>"Yes."</p>
			<p>"You didn't disseminate it anywhere. You drank it all yourself."</p>
			<p>"Yes."</p>
			<p>"Why, may I ask?"</p>
			<p>"They say it cure Behemoth. I—I first stage already. They say I dead by winter, and I could not get into forts..."</p>
			<p>Lubin didn't dare touch the man, not with his isolation skin in tatters. He studied Phong's exposed and reddened skin, at the blisters rising across it. If there had been any obvious signs of either Behemoth or Seppuku, they were now indistinguishable under the burns. He tried to remember if Phong had presented any symptoms prior to being shot.</p>
			<p>"When did you do this?" he asked at last.</p>
			<p>"Two days. I felt fine until...you...you..." Phong squirmed weakly, winced at the result.</p>
			<p>Two days. Seppuku was fast, but all the symptomatic vectors Lubin had encountered had been infected for longer than that. It was probably only a matter of hours before Phong started presenting. A day or two at most.</p>
			<p>"—to me?" Phong was saying.</p>
			<p>Lubin looked down at him. "What?"</p>
			<p>"What you do to me?"</p>
			<p>"A lifter's on the way. You'll be in a medical facility by nightfall."</p>
			<p>"I'm sorry," Phong said, and coughed. "They say I be dead by winter," he repeated in a weak voice.</p>
			<p>"You will be," Lubin told him.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
