<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Migration</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Migration</h3>
			<p>Obviously she had come late to the conversation. If she had heard the way it started, Clarke knew, Taka Ouellette wouldn't have wanted anything to do with her.</p>
			<p>The good doctor had contacts on the ground, so she said. People she'd saved, or bought time for. The loved ones of those whose suffering she'd ended. Occasional dealers, wildland hustlers who could sometimes conjure up drugs or spare parts to be weighed against other items in trade. They were the furthest thing from altruists, but they could be life-savers when the closest resupply lifter was a week away.</p>
			<p>All of them had a healthy sense of self-interest. All of them knew others.</p>
			<p>Lubin remained skeptical, of course. Or at least, Clarke thought, he continued to <i>act</i> skeptical. It was part of his schtick. It had to be. Nobody would honestly turn their back on the chance, however faint, to undo even a part of what—</p>
			<p>—<i>what I set in motion...</i></p>
			<p>There was the rub, and Lubin—God damn him—knew it as well as she did. Once you've helped destroy the world, once you've taken fierce stinging pleasure in its death throes, it's not easy to claim the moral high ground over someone who's merely reluctant to <i>save</i> it. Even if it's been a while. Even if you've changed in the meantime. If there's a Statute of Limitations on terracide, there's no way it expires after a lousy five years.</p>
			<p>Taka Ouellette had proposed a southern course towards whatever was left of Portland; and even if there was no way into the datapipe from there, Boston would be that much closer. Besides, Ouellette was an <i>official person</i> in these parts, someone with recognized credentials and identity. Almost an authority figure, by local standards. She might even be able to walk them in through the front door.</p>
			<p>"Authority figures don't drive around handing out derms from the back of a truck," Lubin said.</p>
			<p>"Yeah? And what have your efforts netted us lately? You still think you can hack into the global nervous system when all the back-door nerves have been burned away?"</p>
			<p>In the end he agreed, with conditions. They would go along with Ouellette's plan so long as it took them in the right direction. They would make use of her MI after every counterintrusion device had been ripped out of the cab; he would ensure her cooperation while she advised Clarke on the necessary monkeywork.</p>
			<p>The MI's cab was a marvel of spatial economy. Twin cots folded down in the space behind the seats, and a little shower/head cubicle squeezed into the rear wall between a Calvin cycler and the forward medical interface. But what really amazed Clarke was the number of booby traps infesting the place. There were gas canisters hooked into the ventilation system. There were taser needles sheathed in the seat cushions, ready to shoot through flesh and insulative clothing at a word or a touch. There was a photic driver under the dash, a directional infrared strobe that could penetrate closed eyelids and induce seizures. Taka Ouellette itemized them all, Lubin standing at her back, while Clarke scrambled about with a toolkit and pulled the plugs. Clarke had no way of knowing if the list was comprehensive—for all she knew, Ouellette was leaving an ace up her sleeve against future necessity—but Lubin was a lot less trusting than she was, and Lubin seemed satisfied.</p>
			<p>It took them an hour to disarm the cab. After Ouellette asked if they wanted to disable external security as well, she actually seemed disappointed when Lubin shook his head.</p>
			<p>They split up. Lubin would pilot <i>Phocoena</i> down the coast and try to access Portland independently; Clarke, keeping a copy of the ß-max sequence close to her chest, would accompany Ouellette towards a rendezvous near one of her regular waypoints.</p>
			<p>"Don't tell her about ß-max before you have to," Lubin warned, safely out of Ouellete's earshot.</p>
			<p>"Why not?"</p>
			<p>"Because it defeats the only defense anyone's ever been able to muster against ßehemoth. The moment she realizes something like that exists, her priorities are going to turn upside down."</p>
			<p>Clarke was initially surprised that Lubin would let either of them out of his sight; he wasn't fond of potential security breaches even without his kill reflex engaged, and he knew Clarke was chafing against his mission priorities. He wasn't a trusting soul at the best of times; how did he know that the two women wouldn't simply turn inland and abandon him altogether?</p>
			<p>It was only when they'd gone their separate ways that the obvious answer occurred to her. Of course, he'd been hoping for that very thing.</p>
			<p>They drove through a land blasted and scoured clean of any live thing. The MI, built for rough terrain, climbed over fallen tree trunks that crumbled beneath its wheels. It navigated potholes filled with ash and soot, drove straightaways where swirls and gusts of gray powder swept across the refrozen asphalt like tiny Antarctic blizzards, centimeters high. Twice they passed deranged billboards half-melted against the rock, their lattices warped and defiantly semifunctional, advertising nothing now but the flickering multicolored contours of their own heat stress.</p>
			<p>After a while it began to rain. The ash congealed like paste on the ground, stuck to the hood like blobs of papier maché. Some of those blobs were almost heavy enough to thwart the windshield, leaving light smudges on the glass before the static field bounced them away.</p>
			<p>They didn't exchange a word during that whole time. Unfamiliar music filled the silence between them, archaic compositions full of clonking pianos and nervous strings. Ouellette seemed to like the stuff, anyway. She focused on driving while Clarke stared out the window, reflecting on the allocation of damage. How much of this devastation could be laid at her door? How much at the doors of demons who'd adopted her name?</p>
			<p>Eventually they left the scorched zone behind. Now there was real grass at the side of the road, occasional shrubs pocking the ditches further back, real evergreens looming like ranks of ragged, starving stickmen on the other side. Mostly brown, of course, or turning brown, as though in the grip of a great endless drought.</p>
			<p>This rain wouldn't help them. They were hanging on—some even flew flags of hardy, defiant green from their limbs—but ßehemoth was everywhere, and it was implacable, and it had all the time in the world. Sometimes it massed so abundantly that it was visible to the naked eye: patches of ochre mould smothering the grass, or spreading across the trunks of trees. And yet, the sight of all this vegetation—not truly alive, perhaps, but at least physically <i>intact</i>—seemed cause for some small celebration after the charnel house they'd just escaped.</p>
			<p>"So, do you ever take those out?" Ouellette wondered.</p>
			<p>"Sorry?" Clarke brought herself back to the moment. The doctor had gone to autopilot—a simple follow-the-road mode, with no dangerous navigational forays into GPS.</p>
			<p>"Those caps on your eyes. Do you ever...?"</p>
			<p>"Oh. No. Not usually."</p>
			<p>"Nightshades? Let you see in the dark?"</p>
			<p>"Sort of."</p>
			<p>Ouellette pursed her lips. "I remember seeing those, years ago. All over the place, just before everything went bad. They were really popular for about twenty minutes."</p>
			<p>"They still are, where I come from." Clarke looked out the rain-spattered side window. "With my tribe, anyway."</p>
			<p>"Tribe? You're not all the way from Africa?"</p>
			<p>Clarke snorted softly. "Fuck no." <i>Only about half the way, actually...</i></p>
			<p>"Didn't think so. You don't have the melanin, not that that means much these days of course. And the Tutsis wouldn't be over here anyway, except maybe to gloat."</p>
			<p>"Gloat?"</p>
			<p>"Not that you can blame them, mind you. There's barely anyone left over there more than forty years old. Firewitch is pure poetic justice as far as they're concerned."</p>
			<p>Clarke shrugged.</p>
			<p>"So if not Africa," Ouellette said, pushing it, "maybe you're from Mars."</p>
			<p>"Why would you say that?"</p>
			<p>"You're definitely not from around here. You thought Miri was an ambulance." She patted the dashboard affectionately. "You don't know about the Lenies—"</p>
			<p>Clarke clenched her teeth, suddenly angry. "I know about them. Nasty evolving code that lives in the Maelstrom and raises shit. Vengeance icon for a bunch of countries that hate your guts. And while we're on the subject, maybe you could explain how <i>you</i> came to be blundering around handing out derms and mercy-kills while the whole eastern hemisphere is trying to lob a cure for ßehemoth onto your head? Not being from Mars doesn't seem to have kept <i>you</i> all that up-to-speed on current events."</p>
			<p>Ouellette watched her curiously for a moment. "There you go again."</p>
			<p>"<i>What</i>?"</p>
			<p>"<i>Maelstrom</i>. It's been years since I heard anyone use that word."</p>
			<p>"So what? What difference does it make?"</p>
			<p>"Come on, Laurie. You show up in the middle of nowhere, you hijack my van, neither of you is <i>normal</i> by any stretch of the imagination—I mean, of <i>course</i> I want to know where you came from."</p>
			<p>Clarke's anger faded as suddenly as it had flared. "Sorry."</p>
			<p>"In fact, given that I still seem to be some kind of honorary prisoner, you could even say you owe me an explanation."</p>
			<p>"We were hiding," Clarke blurted out.</p>
			<p>"Hiding." Ouellette didn't seem surprised. "Where is there to hide?"</p>
			<p>"Nowhere, as it turns out. That's why we came back."</p>
			<p>"Are you a corpse?" Ouellette asked.</p>
			<p>"Do I look like one?"</p>
			<p>"You <i>look</i> like some kind of deep-sea diver." She gestured at the vent on Clarke's chest. "Electrolysis intake, right?"</p>
			<p>Clarke nodded.</p>
			<p>"So I guess you've been underwater all this time. Huh." Ouellette shook her head. "I'd have guessed geosynch, myself."</p>
			<p>"Why?"</p>
			<p>"It was just one of the rumors going around. Back when the witch was just getting started, and the riots were taking off—this thread started growing, that a few hundred high-powered corpses had vanished off the face of the earth. I don't know how you'd ever prove something like that, nobody ever saw those people in the flesh anyway. They could've all been sims for all we knew. Anyway, you know how these things get around. The word was they'd all jumped offworld from Australia, and they were all nice and comfy up in geosynch watching the world come down."</p>
			<p>"I'm not a corpse," Clarke said.</p>
			<p>"But you work for them," Ouellette guessed.</p>
			<p>"Who didn't?"</p>
			<p>"I mean recently."</p>
			<p>"Recently?" Clarke shook her head. "I think I can honestly say that neither Ken nor I—<i>Christ</i>!"</p>
			<p>It jumped out from some hiding place under the dash, all segments and clicking mandibles. It clung to her knee with far too many jointed limbs, a grotesque hybrid of grasshopper and centipede the size of her little finger. Her hand came down of its own accord; the little creature splattered under her palm.</p>
			<p>"<i>Fuck</i>," she breathed. "What <i>was</i> that?"</p>
			<p>"Whatever it was, it wasn't doing <i>you</i> any harm."</p>
			<p>"I've never seen anything like—" Clarke broke off, looked at the other woman. Ouellette actually looked pissed.</p>
			<p>"That wasn't—that wasn't a pet or anything, was it?" It seemed absurd. <i>Then again, it wouldn't be any crazier than keeping a head cheese.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>I wonder how she's doing...</i>
			</p>
			<p>"It was just a bug," Ouellette said. "It wasn't hurting anybody."</p>
			<p>Clarke wiped her palm against her thigh; chitin and yellow goop smeared across the diveskin. "That just—that was <i>wrong</i>. That wasn't like any bug I've ever seen."</p>
			<p>"I keep telling you. You're behind the times."</p>
			<p>"So these things are old news?"</p>
			<p>Ouellette shrugged, her irritation apparently subsiding. "They're starting to show up here and there. Basically, regular bugs with too many segments. Some kind of Hox mutation, I'd guess, but I don't know if anybody's looked at them all that closely."</p>
			<p>Clarke looked at the sodden, withering landscape scrolling past the window. "You seem pretty invested in a—a bug."</p>
			<p>"What, things aren't dying fast enough for you? You have to help them along?" Ouellette took a breath, started over. "Sorry. You're right. I just—you kind of empathize with things after a while, you know? Spend enough time out here, everything seems—valuable..."</p>
			<p>Clarke didn't answer. The vehicle navigated a fissure in the road, wobbling on its ground-effect shocks.</p>
			<p>"I know it doesn't make much sense," Ouellette admitted after a while. "It's not like ßehemoth changed much of anything."</p>
			<p>"What? Look out the window, Tak. Everything's dying."</p>
			<p>"That was happening anyway. Not as fast, maybe."</p>
			<p>"Huh." Clarke regarded the other woman. "And you really think someone's throwing a cure over the transom."</p>
			<p>"For Human stupidity? No such thing, I suspect. But for ßehemoth, who knows?"</p>
			<p>"How would that work? I mean, what haven't they already tried?"</p>
			<p>Ouellette shook her head, laughing softly. "Laurie, you give me way too much credit. I don't have a clue." She thought a moment. "Could be a Silverback Solution, I suppose."</p>
			<p>"Never heard of it."</p>
			<p>"Few decades ago, in Africa. Hardly any gorillas left, and the natives were eating up the few that remained. So some conservation group got the bright idea of making the gorillas inedible."</p>
			<p>"Yeah? How?"</p>
			<p>"Engineered Ebola variant. Didn't harm the gorillas, but any human who ate one would bleed out inside seventy-two hours."</p>
			<p>Clarke smiled, faintly impressed. "Would that work for us?"</p>
			<p>"It'd be tough. Germs evolve countermeasures a lot faster than mammals."</p>
			<p>"I guess it didn’t work for the gorillas either.”</p>
			<p>Ouellette snorted. "It worked <i>way</i> too well."</p>
			<p>"So how come they’re extinct?"</p>
			<p>"We wiped them out. Unacceptable risk to Human health."</p>
			<p>Rain pelted against the roof of the cab and streaked along the side windows. Up front, the drops hurtled at the windshield and veered impossibly off-target, centimeters from impact.</p>
			<p>"Taka," Clarke said after a few minutes.</p>
			<p>Ouellette looked at her.</p>
			<p>"Why don't people call it <i>Maelstrom</i> any more?"</p>
			<p>The doctor smiled faintly. "You do know why they called it that in the first place, right?"</p>
			<p>"It got...crowded. User storms, e-life."</p>
			<p>Ouellette nodded. "Most of that's gone now. So much of the actual network has degraded, physically, that most of the wildlife went extinct from habitat loss. This side of the wall, anyway—they partitioned N'amNet off years ago. For all I know it's still boiling along everywhere else, but around here—"</p>
			<p>She looked out the window.</p>
			<p>"Here, the Maelstrom just moved outside."</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
