<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Groundwork</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-1" id="chapter-1-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Groundwork</h3>
			<p>Kevin Walsh is a good kid. He knows relationships take work, he's willing to do what it takes to keep the spark—such as it is—alive. Or at least, to stretch its death out over the longest possible period.</p>
			<p>He attached himself to her arm after Lubin handed out the first fine-tuning assignments, and wouldn't take <i>Later, maybe</i> for an answer. Finally Clarke relented. They found an unoccupied hab and threw down a couple of sleeping pallets, and he uncomplainingly worked his tongue and thumb and forefinger down to jelly until she didn't have the heart to let him continue. She stroked his head and said it was nice but it really wasn't working, and she offered herself in turn for his efforts, but he didn't take her up on it—whether out of chivalrous penance for his own inadequacy or simply because he was sulking, she couldn't tell.</p>
			<p>Now they lie side by side, hands lightly interlocked at arm's length. Walsh is asleep, which is surprising: he's no more fond of sleeping in gravity than any other rifter. Maybe it's another chivalrous affectation. Maybe he's faking it.</p>
			<p>Clarke can't bring herself to do even that. She lies on her back and stares up at the condensation beading on the bulkhead. After a while she disentangles her hand from Walsh's—gently, so as not to interrupt the performance—and wanders over to the local Comm board.</p>
			<p>The main display frames a murky, cryptic obelisk looming up out of the seabed. Atlantis's primary generator. Part of it, anyway—the bulk of the structure plunges deep into bedrock, into the heart of a vent from which it feeds like a mosquito sucking hot blood. Only the apex rises above the substrate like some lumpy windowless skyscraper, facades pocked and wormy with pipes and vents and valves. A sparse dotted line of floodlights girdles the structure about eight meters up, casting a bright coarse halo that stains everything copper. The abyss presses down against that light like a black hand; the top of the generator extends into darkness.</p>
			<p>A conduit the size of a sewer pipe emerges at ground level and snakes into the darkness. Clarke absently tags the next cam in line, following the line along the seabed.</p>
			<p>"Hey, <i>what are you</i> "</p>
			<p>He doesn't sound sleepy at all.</p>
			<p>She turns. Walsh is crouched half-kneeling on the pallet, as though caught in the act of rising. He doesn't move, though.</p>
			<p>"Hey, get back here. I wanna try again." He's going for a boyish grin. He's wearing the Disarmingly Cute Face of Seduction. It's a jarring contrast with his posture, which evokes the image of an eleven-year-old caught masturbating on the good linen.</p>
			<p>She eyes him curiously. "What's up, Kev?"</p>
			<p>He laughs; it sounds like a hiccough. "Nothing's <i>up</i> we just didn't, you know, <i>finish</i> "</p>
			<p>A dull gray lump of realization congeals in her throat. Experimentally, she turns back to the board and trips the next surveillance cam in the chain. The seabed conduit winds on towards a distant hazy geometry of backlit shadows.</p>
			<p>Walsh tugs at her shoulder, nuzzles from behind. "Ladies' choice. Limited time offer, expires soon "</p>
			<p>Next cam.</p>
			<p>"Come <i>on</i>, Len—"</p>
			<p>Atlantis. A small knot of rifters has accreted at the junction of two wings, nowhere near any of the assigned surveillance stations. They appear to be taking measurements of some kind. Some of them are laden with strange cargo.</p>
			<p>Walsh has fallen silent. The lump in Clarke's throat metastasizes.</p>
			<p>She turns. Kevin Walsh has backed away, a mixture of guilt and defiance on his face.</p>
			<p>"You gotta give her a chance, Len," he says. "I mean, you gotta be more <i>objective</i> about this "</p>
			<p>She regards him calmly. "You asshole."</p>
			<p>"Oh right," he flares. "Like anything <i>I</i> ever did mattered to <i>you</i>."</p>
			<p>She grabs the disconnected pieces of her diveskin. They slide around her body like living things, fusing one to another, sealing her in, sealing him out, welcome liquid armor that reinforces the boundary between <i>us</i> and <i>them</i>.</p>
			<p><i>Only there is no</i> us, she realizes. <i>There never was.</i> And what <i>really</i> pisses her off is that she'd forgotten that, that she never even saw this coming; even privy to her lover's brainstem, even cognizant of all the guilt and pain and stupid masochistic yearning in there, she hadn't picked up on this imminent betrayal. She'd sensed his resentment, of course, and his hurt, but that was nothing new. When it came right down to it, outright treachery just didn't make enough of a difference in this relationship to register.</p>
			<p>She doesn't look at him as she descends to the airlock.</p>
			<p>Kevin Walsh is one fucked-up little boy. It's just as well she never got too attached.</p>
			<p>Their words buzz back and forth among the shadows of the great structure: numbers, times, shear stress indices. A couple of rifters carry handpads; others fire click-trains of high-frequency sounds through acoustic rangefinders. One of them draws a big black X at some vital weak spot.</p>
			<p>How did Ken put it? <i>For concealment, not effect.</i> Obviously they aren't going to make <i>that</i> mistake again.</p>
			<p>They're expecting her, of course. Walsh didn't warn them—not on the usual channels, anyway— but you can't sneak up on the fine-tuned.</p>
			<p>Clarke pans the company. Nolan, three meters overhead, looks down at her. Cramer, Cheung, and Gomez accrete loosely around them. Creasy and Yeager—too distant for visual ID, but clear enough on the mindline—are otherwise occupied some ways down the hull.</p>
			<p>Nolan's vibe overwhelms all the others: where once was resentment, now there's triumph. But the anger—the sense of scores yet to be settled— hasn't changed at all.</p>
			<p>"Don't blame Kev," Clarke buzzes. "He did his best." She wonders offhand how far Nolan went to secure that loyalty.</p>
			<p>Nolan nods deliberately. "Kev's a good kid. He'd do anything to help the group." The slightest emphasis on <i>anything</i> slips through the machinery, but Clarke's already seen it in the meat behind.</p>
			<p><i>That far</i>.</p>
			<p>She forces herself to look deeper, to dig around for guilt or duplicity, but of course it's pointless. If Nolan ever kept such secrets, she's way past it now. Now she wears her intentions like a badge of honor.</p>
			<p>"So what's going on?" Clarke asks.</p>
			<p>"Just planning for the worst," Nolan says.</p>
			<p>"Uh huh." She nods at the X on the hull. "Planning for it, or provoking it?"</p>
			<p>Nobody speaks.</p>
			<p>"You do realize we control the generators. We can shut them down any time we want. Blowing the hull would be major overkill."</p>
			<p>"Oh, we'd never do for <i>excessive force</i>." That's Cramer, off to the left. "Especially since <i>they</i> always be so gentle."</p>
			<p>"We just think it would be wise to have other options," Chen buzzes, apologetic but unswayable. "Just in case something compromises Plan A."</p>
			<p>"Such as?"</p>
			<p>"Such as the way certain hands pump the cocks of the mouths that bite them," Gomez says.</p>
			<p>Clarke spins casually to face him. "Articulate as always, Gomer. I can see why you don't talk much."</p>
			<p>"If I were you—" Nolan begins.</p>
			<p>"<i>Shut the fuck up.</i>"</p>
			<p>Clarke turns slowly in their midst, her guts convecting in a slow freezing boil. "Anything they did to you, they did to me first. Any shit they threw at you, they threw way more at me. <i>Way</i> more."</p>
			<p>"Which ended up landing on everyone <i>but</i> you," Nolan points out.</p>
			<p>"You think I'm gonna stick my tongue up their ass just because they <i>missed</i> when they tried to kill me?"</p>
			<p>"Are you?"</p>
			<p>She coasts up until her face is scant centimeters from Nolan's. "Don't you fucking <i>dare</i> question my loyalty again, Grace. I was down here before <i>any</i> of you miserable haploids. While you were all back on shore pissing and moaning about job security, <i>I</i> broke into their fucking castle and personally kicked Rowan and her buddies off the pot."</p>
			<p>"Sure you did. Then you joined her sorority two days later. You play VR games with her <i>daughter</i>, for Chrissake!"</p>
			<p>"Yeah? And what exactly did her daughter do to deserve you dropping the whole Atlantic Ocean onto her head? Even if you're right—<i>even</i> if you're right—did their <i>kids</i> fuck you over? What did their families and their servants and their toilet-scrubbers ever do to you?"</p>
			<p>The words vibrate off into the distance. The deep, almost subsonic hum of some nearby piece of life-support sounds especially loud in their wake.</p>
			<p>Maybe the tiniest bit of uncertainty in the collective vibe, now. Maybe even a tiny bit in Nolan's.</p>
			<p>But she's not giving a micron. "You want to know what they did, Len? They chose sides. The wives and the husbands and the medics and even any pet toilet-scrubbers those stumpfucks may have kept around for old time's sake. They all chose sides. Which is more than I can say for you."</p>
			<p>"This is not a good idea," Clarke buzzes.</p>
			<p>"Thanks for your opinion, Len. We'll let you know if we need you for anything. In the meantime, stay out of my way. The sight of you makes me want to puke."</p>
			<p>Clarke plays her final card. "It's not me you have to worry about."</p>
			<p>"What made you think we were ever worried about <i>you</i>?" The contempt comes off of Nolan in waves.</p>
			<p>"Ken gets very unhappy when he's caught in the middle of some half-assed fiasco like this. I've seen it happen. He's the kind of guy who finds it much easier to shut something down than clean up after it. You can deal with <i>him</i>."</p>
			<p>"We already have," Nolan buzzes. "He knows all about it."</p>
			<p>"Even gave us a few pointers," Gomez adds.</p>
			<p>"Sorry, sweetie." Nolan leans in close to Clarke; their hoods slip frictionlessly past each other, a mannequin nuzzle. "But you really should have seen that coming."</p>
			<p>Without another word the group goes back to work, as if cued by some stimulus to which Lenie Clarke is blind and deaf. She hangs there in the water, stunned, betrayed. Bits and pieces of some best-laid plan assemble themselves in the water around her.</p>
			<p>She turns and swims away.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
