<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Bedside Manor</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-1" id="chapter-1-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Bedside Manor</h3>
			<p>Gene Erickson and Julia Friedman live in a small single-deck hab about two hundred meters southeast of Atlantis. Julia has always done most of the housekeeping: Gene gets notoriously twitchy in enclosed spaces. For him, <i>home</i> is the open ridge: the hab is a necessary evil, for sex and feeding and those occasional times when the his own darkdreams prove insufficiently diverting. Even then, he treats it the way a pearl diver of two hundred years past would treat a diving bell: a place to gulp the occasional breath of air before returning to the deep.</p>
			<p>Now, of course, it's more of an ICU.</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke emerges from the airlock and lays her fins on an incongruous welcome mat laid to one side. The main compartment is dim even to rifter eyes, a grey-on-grey wash of twilight punctuated by the bright chromatic readouts on the comm board. The air smells of mould and metal; more faintly, of vomit and disinfectant. Life-support systems gurgle underfoot. Open hatches gape like black mouths: storage; head; sleeping cubby. An electronic metronome beeps somewhere nearby. A heart monitor, counting down.</p>
			<p>Julia Friedman steps into view.</p>
			<p>"He's still—oh." She's taken off her diveskin in favor of a thermochrome turtleneck that mostly covers her scars. It's strange to see rifter eyes atop dryback clothing. "Hi, Lenie."</p>
			<p>"Hi. How's he doing?"</p>
			<p>"Okay." She turns in the hatchway, sags with her spine against the frame: half in darkness, half in twilight. She turns her face to the darkness, to the person within it. "Could be better, I guess. He's asleep. He's sleeping a lot."</p>
			<p>"I'm surprised you could even keep him inside."</p>
			<p>"Yeah. I think he'd rather be out there, even now, but he's doing it for me, I think. Because I asked him." Friedman shakes her head. "It was too easy."</p>
			<p>"What was?"</p>
			<p>"Convincing him." She takes a breath. "You know how much he loves the outdoors."</p>
			<p>"Are Jerry's antibiotics helping?"</p>
			<p>"Maybe. I guess. It's hard to say, you know? She can always say he'd be worse without them, no matter how bad it gets."</p>
			<p>"Is that what she's saying?"</p>
			<p>"Oh, Gene hasn't talked to her since he came back. He doesn't trust them." She stares at the deck. "He blames her for this."</p>
			<p>"For being sick?"</p>
			<p>"He thinks they did something to him."</p>
			<p>Clarke remembers. "What exactly does he—?"</p>
			<p>"I don't know. Something." Friedman glances up: her armored eyes lock onto Clarke's for an instant, then slide off to the side. "It's taking a long time to clear up, you know? For a simple infection. Do you think?"</p>
			<p>"I don't really know, Julia."</p>
			<p>"Maybe Behemoth's mixing things up somehow. Making things worse."</p>
			<p>"I don't know if it works like that."</p>
			<p>"Maybe I've got it too, by now." Friedman almost seems to be talking to herself. "I mean, I'm with him a lot "</p>
			<p>"We could check you out, if you wanted."</p>
			<p>Friedman looks at her. "You were infected, weren't you? Before."</p>
			<p>"Only with Behemoth," Clarke says, careful to draw the distinction. "It didn't kill me. Didn't even make me sick."</p>
			<p>"It would have, though. Eventually. Right?"</p>
			<p>"If I hadn't got my retrofits. But I did. We all did." She tries a smile. "We're rifters, Julia. We're tough little motherfuckers. He'll pull through. I know it."</p>
			<p>It's not much, Clarke knows. Reassuring deception is all she can offer Julia Friedman at the moment. She knows better than to touch; Freedman's not keen on physical contact. She'd endure a comforting hand on the shoulder, perhaps—even take it in the spirit in which it was intended—but Grace Friedman is very selective with her personal space. It's one of the few ways in which Clarke feels a kinship with the woman. Each can see the other flinch, even when neither does.</p>
			<p>Friedman looks back into the darkness. "Grace says you helped get him out of there."</p>
			<p>Clarke shrugs, a bit surprised that Nolan would give her the credit.</p>
			<p>"I would've been there too, you know. Only " Friedman's voice trails off. The hab's ventilators sigh into the silence.</p>
			<p>"Only you think maybe he'd have been better off where he was," Clarke suggests.</p>
			<p>"Oh, no. Well, maybe partly. I don't know if Dr. Seger's as bad as they think, anyway."</p>
			<p>"They?"</p>
			<p>"Gene and—Grace."</p>
			<p><i>Ah</i>.</p>
			<p>"It's just, I didn't know I didn't know if he'd even <i>want</i> me there." Friedman flashes a rueful smile. "I'm not much of a fighter, Lenie. Not like you, not like—I just kind of roll with the punches."</p>
			<p>"He could have been with Grace all along if he'd wanted to, Julia. He's with you."</p>
			<p>Friedman laughs, a bit too quickly. "Oh, no. That's not what I meant." But Clarke's words seem to have perked her up a bit.</p>
			<p>"Anyway," Clarke says, "I guess I'll leave you guys alone. I just wanted to stop by, see how he was doing."</p>
			<p>"I'll tell him," Friedman says. "He'll appreciate it."</p>
			<p>"Sure. No problem." She bends to retrieve her fins.</p>
			<p>"And you should come by again, when he's awake. He'd like that." She hesitates, looking away; chestnut curls obscure her face. "Not many people come by, you know. Except Grace. Saliko was by a while back."</p>
			<p>Clarke shrugs. "Rifters aren't big on social skills." <i>And you really ought to know that by now</i>, she doesn't add. Julia Friedman just doesn't get it, sometimes. It's as though, scars and history notwithstanding, she's a rifter in name only, an honorary member allowed past the gate on her husband's credentials.</p>
			<p><i>Which begs the question of what</i> I'm <i>doing here</i>, she realizes.</p>
			<p>"I think they take him too seriously sometimes," Friedman says.</p>
			<p>"Seriously?" Clarke glances at the airlock. The hab seems suddenly, subtly smaller.</p>
			<p>"About, you know. The corpses. I hear Saliko's feeling a little odd now, but you know Saliko."</p>
			<p><i>He thinks they did something to him..</i>.</p>
			<p>"I wouldn’t worry about it," Clarke says. "Really." She smiles, sighing inwardly at her own diplomacy.</p>
			<p>Comforting lies get far too easy with practice.</p>
			<p>It's been a while since she's let Kevin take her. He's never been all that good at it, sadly. He has a harder time keeping it up than most kids his age, which actually isn't all that uncommon among the local bottom-feeders. And the fact that he's chosen a frigid bitch like Lenie Clarke to practice his moves on hasn't helped the dynamic any. A man afraid to touch: a woman averse to contact. If these two have anything in common, it's patience.</p>
			<p>She figures she owes him. Besides, she wants to ask him some questions.</p>
			<p>But today he's a granite cock with a brain stem attached. fuck the foreplay: he pushes into her right off the top, not even a token tongue-lashing to make up for the lack of tropical irrigation. The friction pulls painfully at her labia; she reaches down discretely with one hand and spreads them. Walsh pumps on top of her, breath hissing through teeth clenched in a hard animal grin, his capped eyes hard and unreadable. They always keep their eyes masked during sex—Clarke's tastes prevail, as usual— although Walsh usually wears too much heart on his face to hide with a couple of membranous eggshells. Not this time. There's something behind his overlays that Clarke can't quite make out, something focused on the space where she is but not on <i>her</i>. He pushes her up the pallet in rough thrusting increments; her head bumps painfully against the naked metal plating of the deck. They fuck without words amidst stale air and grafted machinery.</p>
			<p>She doesn't know what's come over him. It's a nice change, though, the closest thing to an honest-to-God rape she's had in years. She closes her eyes and summons up images of Karl Acton.</p>
			<p>Afterwards, though, the bruise she notices is on <i>his</i> arm: a corona of torn capillaries around a tiny puncture in the flesh of his inner elbow.</p>
			<p>"What's this?" She lays her lips around the injury and runs her tongue across the swelling.</p>
			<p>"Oh, that. Grace is taking blood samples from everyone."</p>
			<p>Her head comes up. "What?"</p>
			<p>"She's not great at it. Took her a couple of tries to find a vein. You should see Lije. Looks like his arm got bushwhacked by a sea urchin."</p>
			<p>"Why's Grace taking blood?"</p>
			<p>"You didn't hear? Lije came down with something. And Saliko's started feeling under the weather too, and <i>he</i> visited Gene and Julia just a couple of days ago."</p>
			<p>"So Grace thinks—"</p>
			<p>"Whatever the corpses gave him, it's spreading."</p>
			<p>Clarke sits up. She's been naked on the deck for half an hour, but this is the first time she's felt the chill. "Grace thinks the corpses gave him something."</p>
			<p>"That's what Gene thought. She's going to find out."</p>
			<p>"How? She doesn't have any medical training."</p>
			<p>Walsh shrugs. "You don't need any to run MedBase."</p>
			<p>"Jesus semen-sucking Christ." Clarke shakes her head in disbelief. "Even if Atlantis <i>did</i> want to sic some bug on us, they wouldn't be stupid enough to use one from the standard database."</p>
			<p>"I guess she thinks it's a place to start."</p>
			<p>There's something in his voice.</p>
			<p>"You believe her," Clarke says.</p>
			<p>"Well, not nec—"</p>
			<p>"Has Julia come down with anything?"</p>
			<p>"Not so far."</p>
			<p>"<i>Not so far.</i> Kevin, Julia hasn't left Gene's side since they broke him out. If anyone was going to catch anything, wouldn't it be her? Saliko visited, what? Once?"</p>
			<p>"Maybe twice."</p>
			<p>"And what about <i>Grace</i>? From what I hear she's over there all the time. Is <i>she</i> sick?"</p>
			<p>"She says she's taking precaut—"</p>
			<p>"Precautions," Clarke snorts. "Spare me. Am I the only one left on the whole Ridge with a working set of frontal lobes? Abra came down with supersyph last year, remember? It took eight months for Charley Garcia to get rid of those buggy <i>Ascaris</i> in his gut, and I don't remember anyone blaming the corpses for <i>that</i>. People get sick, Kevin, even down here. <i>Especially</i> down here. Half of us rot away before we even have a chance to go native."</p>
			<p>There it is again: something new, staring out from behind the glistening opacities of Walsh's eyecaps. Something not entirely friendly.</p>
			<p>She sighs. "What?"</p>
			<p>"It's just a precaution. I don't see how it can hurt."</p>
			<p>"It can hurt quite a lot if people jump to conclusions without any facts."</p>
			<p>Walsh doesn't move for a moment. Then he gets to his feet. "Grace <i>is</i> trying to get the facts," he says, padding across the compartment. "<i>You're</i> the one jumping to conclusions."</p>
			<p><i>Oh, Kevvy-boy</i>, Clarke wonders. <i>When did</i> you <i>start to grow a spine?</i></p>
			<p>He grabs his diveskin off the chair. Squirming black synthetics embrace him like a lover.</p>
			<p>"Thanks for the fuck," he says. "I gotta go."</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
