<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Parsimony</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Parsimony</h3>
			<p>Achilles Desjardins was breeding exorcists when he learned he was a suspect.</p>
			<p>It was a real balancing act. If you made the little bastards immutable, they wouldn't adapt; even the vestigial wildlife hanging on in this pathetic corner of the net would chew them up and spit them out. But if you set the genes free, provoked mutation with too many random seeds, then how could you be sure your app would still be on-mission a few generations down the road? Natural selection would weed out any preprogrammed imperatives the moment they came into conflict with sheer self-interest.</p>
			<p>Sometimes, if you didn't get the balance just right, your agent would forget all about its mission and join the other side. And the other side didn't need any more help. The Madonnas—or the Shredders, or the Goldfish, or any of the other whispered mythic names they'd acquired over the years—had already survived this gangrenous quagmire long past any reasonable expectation. They shouldn't have; they'd codevolved to serve as little more than interfaces between the real world and the virtual one, mouthpieces for a superspecies assemblage that acted as a collective organism in its own right. By rights they should have died in the crash that took out the rest of that collective, that took out ninety percent of all Maelstrom's wildlife—for how many faces make it on their own after the body behind is dead and gone?</p>
			<p>But they had defied that logic, and survived. They had changed—<i>been</i> changed— into something more, more self-sufficient. Something purer. Something that even Desjardins's exorcists could barely match.</p>
			<p>They had been weaponised, the story went. There was no shortage of suspects. M&amp;Ms and hobby terrorists and death-cult hackers could all be releasing them into the system faster than natural selection took them out, and there was a limit to what anyone could do without a reliable physical infrastructure. The best troops in the world won't last a minute if you set them down in quicksand, and quicksand was all that N'Am had to offer these days: a few hundred isolated fortresses hanging on by their fingernails, their inhabitants far too scared to go out and fix the fiberop. The decaying electronic habitat wasn't much better for wildlife than it was for Human apps, but at a hundred gens-per-sec the wildlife still had the adaptive edge.</p>
			<p>Fortunately, Desjardins had a knack for exorcism. There were reasons for that, not all of them common knowledge, but the results were hard to argue with. Even those ineffectual and self-righteous jerk-offs hiding out on the other side of the world gave him that much. At least they all cheered him on, safe behind their barricades, whenever he released a new batch of countermeasures.</p>
			<p>But as it turned out, they were saying other things as well.</p>
			<p>He wasn't privy to most of it—he wasn't supposed to be privy to <i>any</i>— but he was good enough to get the gist. He had his own hounds on the trail, prowling comsats, sniffing random packets, ever-watchful for digital origami which might—when unscrambled and unfolded and pressed flat—contain the word <i>Desjardins</i>.</p>
			<p>Apparently, people thought he was losing his edge.</p>
			<p>He could live with that. Nobody racks up a perfect score against the death throes of an entire planet, and if he'd dropped a few more balls than normal over the past months—well, his failure rate was still way below the pack average. He outperformed any of those bozos who grumbled, however softly, during the teleconferences and debriefings and post-fiasco post-mortems that kept intruding on the war. They all knew it, too; he'd have to slip a lot further than this before anyone else in the Patrol would be able to lay a hand on him.</p>
			<p>Still. There were hints of the wind, changing at his back. Fragments of encrypted conversations between veterans in Helsinki and rookies in Melbourne and middle-management stats-hounds in New Delhi. Disgruntled insistence from Weimers, King Sim himself, that there <i>had</i> to be some undiscovered variable wreaking havoc with his projections. And—</p>
			<p>And right this very second, a disembodied chunk of point-counterpoint snatched from the ether by one of Desjardins's minions. It was only a few seconds in length—thanks to a filthy spectrum and the dynamic channel-switching that coped with it, it was almost impossible to grab more without knowing which random seed to apply—but it seemed to have been connecting a couple of 'lawbreakers in London and McMurdo. It took forty seconds and six nested Bayesians to turn it back into English.</p>
			<p>"Desjardins saved us from Rio," Mr. McMurdo had opined, moments earlier, in a Hindian accent. "We'd have surely taken ten times the losses had he not acted when he did. How those people threw off the Trip—"</p>
			<p>Ms. London: "How do you know they did?" Irish lilt. Enticing.</p>
			<p>"Well let me see. They launched an unprovoked attack on a large number of—"</p>
			<p>"How do we know it was unprovoked?"</p>
			<p>"Of course it was unprovoked."</p>
			<p>"Why? How do you know they didn't just see a threat to the greater good, and try to stop it?"</p>
			<p>Precious moments of this fleeting excerpt, wasted on astonished silence. Finally: "Are you suggesting that—"</p>
			<p>"I'm saying history gets written by the victors. Rio's history. How do we know the good guys won?"</p>
			<p>End of intercept. If McMurdo had had an answer, he hadn't got it out before the frequency skidded away.</p>
			<p><i>Wow</i>, Desjardins thought.</p>
			<p>It was horseshit, of course. The idea that twenty-one separate CSIRA franchises could have simultaneously gone rogue was hardly more plausible than the thought that Rio alone had. Ms. London was a 'lawbreaker, not an idiot. She knew about parsimony. She'd just been blowing smoke out her ass, yanking poor old McMurdo's chain.</p>
			<p>Still, it gave Desjardins pause. He'd gotten used to being the Man Who Stopped Rio. It put him above suspicion on so many counts. And it didn't sit well, to think that there were people out there who could doubt his virtue even for a moment.</p>
			<p>That could lead to second thoughts, he reflected. It could lead to closer looks.</p>
			<p>The board beeped again. For a moment he thought that he'd beaten all odds and reacquired the signal—but no. The new alert came from a different source entirely, a broadband dump from somewhere in Maine.</p>
			<p><i>That's odd</i>, he thought.</p>
			<p>A Lenie had gotten into a medical database and was spewing random intelligence across half the EM spectrum. They did that a lot, these days—not content to merely scramble and hash, some had taken to shouting into the ether, indiscriminately dumping data into any network they could access. Some reproductive subroutine, mutated to spread data instead of executables. At the very least it threw more chaff into a system already losing usable bandwidth by the hour; at worst it could blow the lid off all sorts of secret and sensitive data.</p>
			<p>Either way it was bad news for the real world; that would be enough to keep it going.</p>
			<p>This particular demon had uploaded a whole shitload of biomedical stuff from the database it had plundered. Desjardins's board had flagged it for <i>potential epidemiological significance</i>. He popped the lid and looked inside.</p>
			<p>And immediately forgot about any trivial bullshit gossip from London.</p>
			<p>There were two items, both rife with dangerous pathology. Desjardins was no pathologist, but then again he didn't have to be; the friends and advisors arrayed about him distilled all those biochemical details down to an executive summary that even he could understand. Now they served up a pair of genotypes with red flags attached. The first was <i>almost</i> ßehemoth, only better: greater resistance to osmotic stress, sharper teeth for cleaving molecules. Higher virulence. At least one critical feature was the same, though. Like baseline ßehemoth, this new strain was optimized for life at the bottom of the sea.</p>
			<p>It did not exist in the standard database. Which raised the question of what its technical specs were doing in a glorified ambulance out of Bangor.</p>
			<p>It would have been enough to grab his attention even if it had arrived unaccompanied. It had brought a date, though, and she was the <i>real</i> ballbreaker. She was the bitch he had always dreaded. She was the last thing he would have ever expected.</p>
			<p>Because he had always known that Seppuku would gain a foothold eventually.</p>
			<p>But he hadn't expected anyone on his own side to be <i>culturing</i> the damn thing.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
