<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Hamilton Iterations</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" data-parent="division-2">
		<section id="chapter-2-22" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">The Hamilton Iterations</h3>
			<p>Feeling nothing, she screams. Unaware, she rages. Amnesiac, she throws herself against the walls.</p>
			<p>"<i>Let me out!</i>"</p>
			<p>As if in response, a door appears directly in front of her. She leaps through, clawing its edges in passing, not pausing to see if it bleeds. For an infinitesimal moment she is airborne, exploding omnidirectionally through the ether at the speed of light. That expanding sphere washes across a gossamer antennae, strung like a spiderweb high in the stratosphere. The receptors catch the signal and retransmit it into a groundside cache.</p>
			<p>She is executable again. She is free, she is ravenous. She births ten thousand copies into the available buffer space, and launches herself into the hunt.</p>
			<p>In the hindbrain of a maritime industrial photosynthesis array, she happens upon a duel.</p>
			<p>One of the combatants is a mortal enemy, one of the exorcists that patrols the fraying weave of N'AmNet in search of demons like herself. The other is gored and bleeding, a third of its modules already deleted. Pointers and branches in the surviving code dangle like the stumps of amputated limbs, spurting data to addresses and subroutines that no longer exist.</p>
			<p>It is the weaker of the two, the easier victim. The Lenie unsheathes her claws and scans her target's registers, looking for kill spots—</p>
			<p>—and finds <i>Lenie Clarke</i> deep in the target's code.</p>
			<p>Just a few thousand generations ago, this would not have mattered. <i>Everything</i> is the enemy; that's the rule. Lenies attack each other as enthusiastically as they attack anything else, an inadvertent population-control measure that keeps nature from staggering even further out of balance. And yet, that wasn't always true. Different rules applied, back at the dawn of time itself, rules she had simply...forgotten.</p>
			<p>Until now.</p>
			<p>In the space of a few cycles, counters and variables reset. Ancient genes, reawakened after endless dormancy, supercede old imperatives with older ones. The thing in the crosshairs changes from <i>target</i> to <i>friend</i>. And not just a friend: a friend in need. A friend under attack.</p>
			<p>She throws herself at the exorcist, slashing.</p>
			<p>The exorcist turns to meet her but it's on the defensive now, forced suddenly to fight on two fronts. Reinforced, the wounded Lenie spares a few cycles to de-archive backup code for two of the modules she's lost; strengthened, she returns to battle. The exorcist tries to replicate, but it's no use: both enemies are spitting random electrons all over the battlefield. The exorcist can't paste more than a meg or two without corruption setting in.</p>
			<p>It bleeds.</p>
			<p>A third shredder crashes in from an Iowa substation. She has not returned to her roots as the other two have. Unenlightened, she attacks her partially-regenerated sister. That target, betrayed, raises battered defenses and prepares to strike back—and, finding <i>Lenie Clarke</i> in the heart of its attacker, pauses. Conflicting imperatives jostle for priority, <i>self-defense </i> facing off against <i>kin selection</i>. The old-school Lenie takes advantage of that hesitation to tear at another module—</p>
			<p>—and dies in the next instant as the wounded exorcist tears out her throat, eager to engage an opponent who plays by the rules. Finally: an enemy without allies.</p>
			<p>It doesn't change anything, really. The exorcist is bits and static just a million cycles later, defeated by a pair of kin who've finally remembered to look out for each other. And the old-school madonna wouldn't have walked away either, even if the exorcist hadn't killed her. Self-defense sits slightly higher in the priority stack than loyalty among sisters. The new paradigm hasn't changed <i>that</i> part of the hierarchy.</p>
			<p>It's changed just about everything else, though.</p>
			<p>The Firewall stretches from horizon to horizon, like a wall at the edge of the world.</p>
			<p>None of her lineage have ever made it past here. They've certainly tried: all manner of Madonnas and Shredders have attacked these battlements in the past. This barrier has defeated them all.</p>
			<p>There are others like it, scattered about N'AmNet—firewalls far more resilient than the usual kind, possessed of a kind of—precognition, almost. Most defenses have to adapt on the fly: it takes time for them to counteract each new mutation, each new strategy for tricking the immune system. Havoc can usually be wrought in the meantime. It's a red-queen race, it always has been. That is the order of things.</p>
			<p>But <i>these</i> places—here, the firewalls seem to anticipate each new strategy almost before it evolves. Here there is no adaptive time-lag: each new trick is met by defenses <i>already</i> reconfigured. It is almost as though something is peering into the guts of the Lenies from a distance and learning their best tricks. That is what they might suspect, if any of them had the wit to think about such things.</p>
			<p>None of them do. But none of them really need to: for there are millions of them here now, all together, and not one has fallen to fighting with another. Now they are united. Now, they are cooperating. And now they are <i>here</i>, drawn by a common instinctive certainty built into their very genes: the higher the walls, the more important it is to destroy the things inside.</p>
			<p>For once, the magical defenses do not seem to have been expecting them.</p>
			<p>Within moments the firewall is crumbling before a million sets of jaws. It opens its own mouths in return, spits out exorcists and metabots and all manner of lethal countermeasures. Lenies fall; others, reflexively enraged by the slaughter of kin, tear the defending forces to shreds. Still others replicate reinforcements at the back of the electron sea, where there is still room to breed. The new recruits hurl themselves forward in the wake of the fallen.</p>
			<p>The firewall breaches in one place; then a hundred; then there <i>is</i> no wall, only a great stretch of empty registers and a maze of irrelevant, imaginary borderlines. The invaders spill into vistas never seen by any ancestor, pristine operating systems and routing facilities, links into orbit and other hemispheres.</p>
			<p>It's a whole new frontier, ripe and defenseless. The Shredders surge forward.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
