<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Portrait of the Sadist as an Adolescent</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-1" id="chapter-1-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Portrait of the Sadist as an Adolescent</h3>
			<p>Achilles Desjardins learned to spoof the skeeters eventually, of course. Even as a child he knew the score. In a world kept under constant surveillance for its own protection there were only watched and watchers, and he knew which side of the lens he wanted to be on. Beating off was not the kind of thing he could do in front of an audience.</p>
			<p>It was barely even the kind of thing he could do in private, for that matter. He had, after all, been raised with certain religious beliefs; clinging to the coattails of the <i>Nouveaux Séparatistes</i>, the Catholic miasma had persisted in Quebec long after it had faded into kitschy irrelevance everywhere else. Those beliefs haunted Achilles every night as he milked himself, as the sick hateful images flickered through his mind and hardened his penis. It barely mattered that the skeeters were offline, wobbling drunkenly under the influence of the magnetic mobiles he'd hung over his bed and desk and drawers. It barely mattered that he was already going to hell, even if he never touched himself again for the rest of his life—for hadn't Jesus said <i>if you do these things even in your heart, then you have committed them in eyes of God?</i> Achilles was already damned by his own unbidden thoughts. What more could he lose by acting on them?</p>
			<p>Shortly after his eleventh birthday his penis began leaving actual evidence behind, a milky fluid squirted onto the sheets in the course of his nightly debauchery. He didn't dare ask the encyclopedia about it for two weeks; it took him that long to figure out how to doctor the enquiry logs so Mom and Dad wouldn't find out. Cracking the private settings on the household Maytag took another three days. You could never tell what trace elements that thing might be scanning for. By the time Achilles actually dared to launder his bedsheets they smelled a lot like Andrew Trites down at the community center, who was twice the size of anyone else in his cohort and whom nobody wanted to stand next to at the rapitrans stop.</p>
			<p>"I think—" Achilles began at thirteen.</p>
			<p>He no longer believed in the Church. He was after all an empiricist at heart, and God couldn't withstand so much as ten seconds' critical scrutiny from anyone who'd already figured out the ugly truth about the Easter Bunny. Paradoxically, though, damnation somehow seemed more real than ever, on some primal level that resisted mere logic. And as long as damnation was real, confession couldn't hurt.</p>
			<p>"—I'm a monster," he finished.</p>
			<p>It wasn't as risky a confession as it might have been. His confidante wasn't especially trustworthy—he'd downloaded it from the net (from <i>Maelstrom</i>, he corrected himself; that's what everyone was calling it now), and it might be full of worms and trojans even if he <i>had</i> scrubbed it every which way—but he'd also kellered all the I/O except voice and he could delete the whole thing the moment it tried anything funny. He'd do that anyway, once he was finished. No way was he going to leave it ticking after he'd spilled his guts to it.</p>
			<p>Dad would go totally triploid if he knew Achilles had brought a wild app anywhere near their home net, but Achilles wasn't about to risk using the house filters even if Dad <i>had</i> stopped spying since Mom died. And anyway, Dad wasn't going to find out. He was downstairs, cowled in his sensorium with the rest of the province—the rest of the <i>country</i> now, Achilles had to keep reminding himself—immersed in the pomp and ceremony of Quebec's very first Independence Day. Sullen, resentful Penny—her days of idolizing Big Brother long past—would have gladly sold him out in a second, but these days she pretty much lived in her rapture helmet. By now it must have worn the grooves right out of her temporal lobes.</p>
			<p>It was the birthday of the last new country in the world, and Achilles Desjardins was alone in his bedroom with his confessor.</p>
			<p>"What kind of monster?" asked TheraPal™ 6.2, its voice studiously androgynous.</p>
			<p>He'd learned the word that very morning. He pronounced it carefully: "A misogynist."</p>
			<p>"I see," TheraPal™ murmered in his ear.</p>
			<p>"I have these—I get these feelings. About hurting them. Hurting girls."</p>
			<p>"And how do they make you feel?" The voice had edged subtly into the masculine.</p>
			<p>"Good. Awful. I mean—I <i>like</i> them. The feelings, I mean."</p>
			<p>"Could you be more specific?" There was no shock or disgust in the voice. Of course, there couldn't be—the program didn't have feelings, it wasn't even a Turing app. It was basically just a fancy menu. Still, stupidly, Achilles felt strangely relieved.</p>
			<p>"It's—sexy," he admitted. "Just, just thinking about them that way."</p>
			<p>"What way, exactly?"</p>
			<p>"You know, helpless. Vulnerable. I, I like the looks on their faces when they're...you know..."</p>
			<p>"Go on," said TheraPal™.</p>
			<p>"Hurting," Achilles finished miserably.</p>
			<p>"Ah," said the app. "How old are you, Achilles?"</p>
			<p>"Thirteen."</p>
			<p>"Do you have any friends who are girls?"</p>
			<p>"Sure."</p>
			<p>"And how do you feel about <i>them</i>?"</p>
			<p>"I <i>told</i> you!" Achilles hissed, barely keeping his voice down. "I get—"</p>
			<p>"No," TheraPal™ broke in gently. "I'm asking how you <i>feel</i> about them personally, when you're not sexually aroused. Do you hate them?"</p>
			<p>Well, no. Andrea was really smart, and he could always go to her for help with his debugs. And Martine—one time, Achilles had just about <i>killed</i> Martine's older brother when he was picking on her. Martine didn't have a mean bone in her body, but that asshole brother of hers was so...</p>
			<p>"I—I like them," he said, his forehead crinkling at the paradox. "I like them a lot. They're great. Except the ones I want to, you know, and even then it's only when I..."</p>
			<p>TheraPal™ waited patiently.</p>
			<p>"Everything's fine," Achilles said at last. "Except when I want to..."</p>
			<p>"I see," the app said after a moment. "Achilles, I have some good news for you. You're not a misogynist after all."</p>
			<p>"No?"</p>
			<p>"A misogynist is someone who hates women, who fears them or thinks them inferior in some way. Is that you?"</p>
			<p>"No, but—but what am I, then?"</p>
			<p>"That's easy," TheraPal™ told him. "You're a sexual sadist. It's a completely different thing."</p>
			<p>"Really?"</p>
			<p>"Sex is a very old instinct, Achilles, and it didn't evolve in a vacuum. It coevolved with all sorts of other basic drives—fighting for mates, territoriality, competition for resources. Even healthy sex has a strong element of violence to it. Sex and aggression share many of the same neurological paths."</p>
			<p>"Are you—are you saying <i>everyone's</i> like me?" It seemed too much to hope for.</p>
			<p>"Not exactly. Most people have a sort of switch that suppresses violent impulses during sex. Some people's switches work better than others. The switches in clinical sadists don't work very well at <i>all</i>."</p>
			<p>"And that's what I am," Achilles murmered.</p>
			<p>"Very likely," TheraPal™ said, "although it's impossible to be sure without a proper clinical checkup. I seem unable to access your network right now, but I could provide a list of nearby affiliated medbooths if you tell me where we are."</p>
			<p>Behind him, the Achilles's bedroom door creaked softly on its hinges. He turned, and froze instantly at his core.</p>
			<p>The door to his bedroom had swung open. His father stood framed in the darkness beyond.</p>
			<p>"Achilles," TheraPal™ said in the whirling, receding distance, "for you own health—not to mention your peace of mind—you really should visit one of our affiliates. A contractually-guaranteed diagnosis is the first step to treatment, and treatment is the first step to a healthy life."</p>
			<p><i>He couldn't have heard,</i> Achilles told himself. TheraPal™ spoke directly to his earbud, and Dad couldn't have stopped the telltale from flashing if he'd been listening in. Dad didn't hack.</p>
			<p>He couldn't have heard TheraPal™. He could've heard Achilles, though.</p>
			<p>"If you're worried about the cost, our rates—" Achilles deleted the app almost without thinking, sick to his stomach.</p>
			<p>His father hadn't moved.</p>
			<p>His father didn't move much, these days. The short fuse, the hair-trigger had rusted into some frozen state between grief and indifference over the years. His once-fiery and defiant Catholicism had turned against itself with the fall of the Church, a virulent rage of betrayal that had burned him out and left him hollow. By the time Achilles' mom had died there'd barely even been sorrow. (A glitch in the therapy he'd said dully, coming back from the hospital. The wrong promoters activated, the body somehow innoculated against its own genes, devouring itself. There was nothing he could do. They'd signed a waiver.)</p>
			<p>Now he stood there in the darkened hallway, swaying slightly, his fists not even clenched. It had been years since he'd raised a hand against his children.</p>
			<p>So what am I afraid of? Achilles wondered, his stomach knotted.</p>
			<p>
				<i>He knows. He knows. I'm afraid he knows...</i>
			</p>
			<p>The corners of his father's mouth tightened by some infinitesimal degree. It wasn't a smile. It wasn't a snarl. In later years, the adult Achilles Desjardins would look back and recognise it as a kind of acknowledgment, but at the time he had no idea what it meant. He only knew that his father simply turned and walked down the hall to the master bedroom, and closed the door behind him, and never mentioned that night ever again.</p>
			<p>In later years, he also realised that TheraPal™ must have been stringing him along. Its goal, after all, had been to attract customers, and you didn't do that by rubbing their faces in unpleasant truths. The program had simply been trying to make him feel better as a marketting strategy.</p>
			<p>And yet, that didn't mean it had <i>lied</i>, necessarily. Why bother, if the truth would do the job? And it all made so much <i>sense.</i> Not a sin, but a malfunction. A thermostat, set askew through no fault of his own. All life was machinery, mechanical contraptions built of proteins and nucleic acids and electricity; what machine ever got creative control over its own specs? It was a liberating epiphany, there at the dawn of the sovereign Quebec: Not Guilty, by reason of faulty wiring.</p>
			<p>Odd, though.</p>
			<p>You'd have expected it to bring the self-loathing down a notch or two in the years that followed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
