<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Without Sin</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-1" id="chapter-1-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Without Sin</h3>
			<p><i>Harpodon</i> doesn't lie between any of the usual rifter destinations. No one swimming from A to B would have any cause to come within tuning range. Not even corpses frequent this far-flung corner of Atlantis. Too many memories. Clarke played the odds in coming here. She'd thought it was a safe bet.</p>
			<p>Obviously she got the odds all wrong.</p>
			<p><i>Or maybe not,</i> she reflects as <i>Harpodon's</i> airlock births her back into the real world. <i>Maybe they're just tailing me now as a matter of course. Maybe I'm some kind of enemy national.</i> It wouldn't be an easy tag—she'd tune in anyone following too closely, and feel the pings against her implants if they tracked her on sonar—but then again, she didn't have the sharpest eye on the ridge even after she tuned herself up. It would be just like her to miss something obvious.</p>
			<p><i>I just keep asking for it</i>, she thinks.</p>
			<p>She fins up along <i>Harpodon</i>'s flank, scanning its hull with her outer eyes while her inner one awakens to the sudden rush of chemicals in her brain. She concentrates, and scores a hit—someone scared and pissed off, moving away—but no. It's only Rowan, moving back out of range.</p>
			<p>No one else. No one nearby. But the thin dusting of oozy particles that settle on everything down here has been disturbed along <i>Harpodon's</i> back. It wouldn't take much—the turbulence caused by a pair of fins kicking past overhead, or the sluggish undulation of some deepwater fish.</p>
			<p>Or a limpetphone, hastily attached to eavesdrop on a traitor consorting with the enemy.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She kicks into open water and turns north. Atlantis passes beneath like a gigantic ball-and-stick ant colony. A cluster of tiny black figures, hazy with distance, travels purposefully near the limits of vision. They're too distant to tune in, and Clarke has left her vocoder offline. Perhaps they're trying to talk to her, but she doubts it; they're on their own course, diverging.</p>
			<p>The vocoder beeps deep in her head. She ignores it. Atlantis falls away behind; she swims forward into darkness.</p>
			<p>A sudden whine rises in the void. Clarke senses approaching mass and organic presence. Twin suns ignite in her face, blinding her. The fog in her eyecaps pulses brightly once, twice as the beams sweep past. Her vision clears: a sub banks by to the left, exposing its belly, regarding her with round insect eyes. Dimitri Alexander stares back from behind the perspex. A utility module hangs from the sub's spine, <i>BIOASSAY</i> stenciled across its side in bold black letters. The vehicle turns its back. Its headlights click off. Darkness reclaims Clarke in an instant.</p>
			<p>West, she realizes. It was heading west.</p>
			<p>Lubin's in the main Nerve Hab, directing traffic. He kills the display the moment Clarke rises into the room.</p>
			<p>"Did you send them after me?" she says.</p>
			<p>He turns in his seat and faces her. "I'll pass on your condolences. Assuming we can find Julia."</p>
			<p>"Answer the fucking question, Ken."</p>
			<p>"I suspect we may not, though. She went walkabout as soon as she gave us the news. Given her state of mind and her basic personality, I wonder if we'll ever see her again."</p>
			<p>"You weren't just <i>aware</i> of it. You weren't just <i>keeping an ear open</i>." Clarke clenches her fists. "You were <i>behind</i> it, weren't you?"</p>
			<p>"You <i>do</i> know that Gene's dead, don't you?"</p>
			<p>He's so fucking calm. And there's that look on his face, the slightest arching of the eyebrows, that sense of deadpan— amusement, almost— seeping out from behind his eyecaps. Sometimes she just wants to throttle the bastard.</p>
			<p>Especially when he's right.</p>
			<p>She sighs. "Pat told me. But I guess you know that already, don't you?"</p>
			<p>Lubin nods.</p>
			<p>"I <i>am</i> sorry," she says. "Julia—she's going to be so lost without him " And Lubin's right: it's quite possible that no one will ever see Julia Friedman again. She's been losing bits of her husband for a while now— to Behemoth, to Grace Nolan. Now that he's irretrievably gone, what can she do by remaining behind, except expose her friends to the thing that killed him? The thing that's killing her?</p>
			<p>Of course she disappeared. Perhaps the only question now is whether B-max will take her body before the Long Dark takes her mind.</p>
			<p>"People are rather upset about it," Lubin's saying. "Grace especially. And since Atlantis didn't come through, for all their talk about working on a cure—"</p>
			<p>Clarke shakes her head. "Rama hasn't pull off any miracles either."</p>
			<p>"The difference is that nobody thinks Rama's trying to kill us."</p>
			<p>She pulls up a chair and sits down beside him. The empty display stares back at her like a personal rebuke.</p>
			<p>"Ken," she says at last, "you <i>know</i> me."</p>
			<p>His face is as unreadable as his eyes.</p>
			<p>"Did you have me followed?" she asks.</p>
			<p>"No. But I availed myself of the information when it came my way."</p>
			<p>"Who was it? Grace?"</p>
			<p>"What's important is that Rowan admitted Behemoth was tweaked. It will be common knowledge within the hour. The timing couldn't be worse."</p>
			<p>"If you <i>availed yourself of the information</i>, you'll know Pat's explanation for that. And you'll know why she was so scared of what Rama might find. Is it so impossible she might be telling the truth?"</p>
			<p>He shakes his head. "But this is the second time they've waited to report an unpleasant fact until just before we would have discovered it ourselves, <i>sans</i> alibi. Don't expect it to go over well."</p>
			<p>"Ken, we still don't have any real evidence."</p>
			<p>"We will soon," Lubin tells her.</p>
			<p>She looks the question.</p>
			<p>"If Rowan's telling the truth, then Behemoth samples from Impossible Lake will show the same tweaks as the strain that killed Gene." Lubin leans back in the chair, interlocking his fingers behind his head. "Jelaine and Dimitri took a sub about ten minutes ago. If things go well we'll have a sample within five hours, a verdict in twelve."</p>
			<p>"And if things don't go well?"</p>
			<p>"It will take longer."</p>
			<p>Clarke snorts. "That's just great, Ken, but in case you haven't noticed not everybody shares your sense of restraint. You think Grace is going to wait until the facts are in? You've given her all the credibility she ever wanted, she's out there right now passing all kinds of judgment and—"</p>
			<p>—<i>And you went to her first, you fucker. After all we've been through, after all these years you were the one person I'd trust with my</i> life <i>and you confided in</i> her <i>before you—</i></p>
			<p>"Were you even going to <i>tell</i> me?" she cries.</p>
			<p>"It wouldn't have served any purpose."</p>
			<p>"Not <i>your</i> purpose, perhaps. Which is what, exactly?"</p>
			<p>"Minimizing risk."</p>
			<p>"Any animal could say that much."</p>
			<p>"It's not the most ambitious aspiration," Lubin admits. "But then again, 'destroying the world' has already been taken."</p>
			<p>She feels it like a slap across the face.</p>
			<p>After a moment he adds, "I don't hold it against you. You know that. But you're hardly in a position to pass judgment."</p>
			<p>"I know that, you cocksucker. I don't need you to remind me every fucking chance you get."</p>
			<p>"I'm talking about strategy," Lubin says patiently. "Not morals. I'll entertain your what-ifs. I'll admit that Rowan might be telling the truth. But assume, for the moment, that she isn't. Assume that the corpses <i>have</i> been waging clandestine biological warfare on us. Even knowing that, would you attack them?"</p>
			<p>She knows it's rhetorical.</p>
			<p>"I didn't think so," he says after a moment. "Because no matter what they've done, <i>you've</i> done worse. But the rest of us don't have quite so much to atone for. We don't think we <i>do</i> deserve to die at the hands of these people. I respect you a great deal, Lenie, but this is one issue you can't be trusted on. You're too hamstrung by your own guilt."</p>
			<p>She doesn't speak for a long time. Finally: "Why <i>her</i>? Of all people?"</p>
			<p>"Because if we're at war, we need firebrands. We've gotten lazy and complacent and weak; half of us spend most of our waking hours hallucinating out on the ridge. Nolan's impulsive and not particularly bright, but at least she gets people motivated."</p>
			<p>"And if you're wrong—even if you're <i>right</i>—the innocent end up paying right along with the guilty."</p>
			<p>"That's nothing new," Lubin says. "And it's not my problem."</p>
			<p>"Maybe it should be."</p>
			<p>He turns back to his board. The display springs to light, columns of inventory and arcane abbreviations that must have some tactical relevance for the upcoming campaign.</p>
			<p><i>My best friend. I'd trust him with my life</i>, she reminds herself, and repeats the thought for emphasis: <i>with my life</i>.</p>
			<p><i>He's a sociopath</i>.</p>
			<p>He wasn't born to it. There are ways of telling: a tendency to self-contradiction and malapropism, short attention-span. Gratuitous use of hand gestures during speech. Clarke's had plenty of time to look it all up. She even got a peek at Lubin's psych profile back at Sudbury. He doesn't meet any of the garden-variety criteria except one—and is <i>conscience</i> really so important, after all? Having one doesn't guarantee goodness; why should its lack make a man evil?</p>
			<p>Yet after all the rationalizations, there he is: a man without a conscience, consigning Alyx and everyone like her to a fate which seems to arouse nothing but indifference in him.</p>
			<p>
				<i>He doesn't care.</i>
			</p>
			<p><i>He</i> can't <i>care. He doesn't have the wiring.</i></p>
			<p>"Huh," Lubin grunts, staring at the board "That's interesting."</p>
			<p>He's brought up a visual of one of Atlantis's physical plants, a great cylindrical module several stories high. Strange black fluid, a horizontal geyser of ink, jets from an exhaust vent in its side. Charcoal thunderheads billow into the water, eclipsing the view.</p>
			<p>"What <i>is</i> that?" Clarke whispers.</p>
			<p>Lubin's pulling up other windows now: seismo, vocoder traffic, a little thumbnail mosaic of surveillance cams spread around inside and outside the complex.</p>
			<p>All Atlantis's inside cams are dead.</p>
			<p>Voices are rising on all channels. Three of the outside cameras have gone ink-blind. Lubin brings up the PA menu, speaks calmly into the abyss.</p>
			<p>"Attention, everyone. Attention. This is it.</p>
			<p>"Atlantis has preempted."</p>
			<p>Now they're reading perfidy all over the place. Lubin's switchboard is a mob scene of competing voices, tuned fishheads reporting that their assigned corpses are abruptly up, focused, and definitely in play. It's as though someone's kicked over an anthill in there: every brain in Atlantis is suddenly lit up along the whole fight-flight axis.</p>
			<p>"Everyone <i>shut up</i>. These are not secure channels." Lubin's voice squelches the others like a granite slab grinding over pebbles. "Take your positions. Blackout in sixty."</p>
			<p>Clarke leans over his shoulder and toggles a hardline into corpseland. "Atlantis, what's going on?" No answer. "Pat? Comm? Anyone, respond."</p>
			<p>"Don't waste your time," Lubin says, bringing up sonar. Half the exterior cams are useless by now, enveloped in black fog. But the sonar image is crisp and clear: Atlantis spreads across the volumetric display like a grayscale crystalline chessboard. Black pieces—the two-tone flesh-and-metal echoes of rifter bodies—align themselves in some coordinated tactical ballet. White is nowhere to be seen.</p>
			<p>Clarke shakes her head. "There was nothing? No warning at all?" She can't believe it; there's no way the corpses could have masked their own anticipation if they'd been planning something. The expectant tension in their own heads would have been obvious to any tuned rifter within twenty meters, well in advance of anything actually <i>happening</i>.</p>
			<p>"It's like they weren't even expecting it themselves," she murmurs.</p>
			<p>"They probably weren't," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>"How could they <i>not</i> be? Are you saying it was some kind of accident?"</p>
			<p>Lubin, his attention on the board, doesn't answer. A sudden blue tint suffuses the sonar display. At first it looks as though the whole view has been arbitrarily blue-shifted; but after a moment clear spots appear, like haphazard spatterings of acid eating holes in a colored gel. Within moments most of the tint has corroded away, leaving random scraps of color laying across Atlantis like blue shadows. Except they're not shadows, Clarke sees now: they're <i>volumes</i>, little three-dimensional clots of colored shade clinging to bits of hull and outcropping.</p>
			<p>A single outside camera, mounted at a panoramic distance, shows a few diffuse glowing spots in a great inky storm front. It's as though Atlantis were some great bioluminescent Kraken in the throes of a panic attack. All the other outside cams are effectively blind. It doesn't matter, though. Sonar looks through that smokescreen as if it wasn't even there. Surely they know that</p>
			<p>"They wouldn't be this stupid," Clarke murmurs.</p>
			<p>"They're not," Lubin says. His fingers dance on the board like manic spiders. A scattering of yellow pinpoints appears on the display. They swell into circles, a series of growing overlapping spotlit areas, each centered on—</p>
			<p><i>Camera locations</i>, Clarke realizes. The yellow areas are those under direct camera surveillance. Or they would be, if not for the smokescreen. Lubin's obviously based his analysis on geometry and not real-time viz.</p>
			<p>"Blackout <i>now</i>." Lubin's finger comes down; the white noise generators come up. The chessboard fuzzes with gray static. On the board, rifter icons—naked little blips now, without form or annotation—have formed into a series of five discrete groups around the complex. One blip from each is rising in the water column, climbing above the zone of interference.</p>
			<p><i>You planned it right down to the trim, didn't you?</i> she thinks. <i>You mapped a whole campaign around this moment and you never told me</i></p>
			<p>The highest icon flickers and clarifies into two conjoined blips: Creasy, riding a squid. His voice buzzes on the channel a moment later. "This is Dale, on station."</p>
			<p>Another icon clears the noise. "Hannuk." Two more: "Abra." "Deb."</p>
			<p>"Avril on station," Hopkinson reports.</p>
			<p>"Hopkinson," Lubin says. "Forget the Cave; they'll have relocated. It won't be obvious. Split up your group, radial search."</p>
			<p>"Yah." Hopkinson's icon dives back into static.</p>
			<p>"Creasy," Lubin says, "your people join up with Cheung's."</p>
			<p>"Right."</p>
			<p>There on the chessboard: at the tip of one of the residential wings, about twenty meters from Hydroponic. A familiar icon there, embedded in an irregular blob of green. The only green on the whole display, in fact. Yellow mixed with blue: so it would be in camera view if not for the ink, and also in—</p>
			<p>"What's blue?" Clarke asks, knowing.</p>
			<p>"Sonar shadow." Lubin doesn't look back. "Creasy, go to the airlock at the far end of Res-F. They're coming out there if they're coming out anywhere."</p>
			<p>"Tune or tangle?" Creasy asks.</p>
			<p>"Tune and report. Plant a phone and a charge, but do <i>not</i> detonate unless they are already in the water. Otherwise, acoustic trigger only. Understood?"</p>
			<p>"Yeah, if I can even <i>find</i> the fucking place," Creasy buzzes. "Viz is <i>zero</i> in this shit " His icon plunges back into the static, cutting an oblique path towards the green zone.</p>
			<p>"Cheung, take both groups, same destination. Secure the airlock. Report back when you're on station."</p>
			<p>"Got it."</p>
			<p>"Yeager, get the cache and drop it twenty meters off the Physical Plant, bearing forty degrees. Everyone else maintain position. Tune in, and use your limpets. Runners, I want three people in a continuous loop, one always in contact. Go."</p>
			<p>The remaining blips swing into motion. Lubin doesn't pause; he's already opening another window, this one a rotating architectural animatic of Atlantis punctuated by orange sparks. Clarke recognizes the spot from which one of those little stars is shining: it's right about where Grace Nolan's lackey painted an X on the hull.</p>
			<p>"How long have you been planning this?" she asks quietly.</p>
			<p>"Some time."</p>
			<p>Since well before she even fine-tuned herself, judging by how utterly clueless she's proven herself to be. "Is everyone involved but me?"</p>
			<p>"No." Lubin studies annotations.</p>
			<p>"Ken."</p>
			<p>"I'm busy."</p>
			<p>"How did they do it? Keep from tipping us off like that?"</p>
			<p>"Automated trigger," he says absently. Columns of numbers scroll up a sudden window, too fast for Clarke to make out. "Random number generator, maybe. They have a plan, but nobody knows when it's going to kick in so there's no pre-curtain performance anxiety to give the game away."</p>
			<p>"But why would they go to all that trouble unless—"</p>
			<p>—<i>they know about fine tuning.</i></p>
			<p>Yves Scanlon, she remembers. Rowan asked about him: <i>He thought that rifter brains might be sensitive, somehow</i>, she suggested.</p>
			<p>And Lenie Clarke confirmed it, just minutes ago.</p>
			<p>And here they are.</p>
			<p>She doesn't know what hurts more: Lubin's lack of trust, or the hindsight realization of how justified it was.</p>
			<p>She's never felt so tired in her life. <i>Do we really have to do this all over again?</i></p>
			<p>Maybe she said it aloud. Or maybe Lubin just caught some telltale body language from the corner of his eye. At any rate, his hands pause on the board. At last he turns to look at her. His eyes seem strangely translucent by the light of the board.</p>
			<p>"We didn't start it," he says.</p>
			<p>She can only shake her head.</p>
			<p>"Choose a side, Lenie. It's past time."</p>
			<p>For all she knows it's a trick question; she's never forgotten what Ken Lubin does to those he considers enemies. But as it turns out, she's spared the decision. Dale Creasy, big dumb bareknuckled headbasher that he is, rescues her.</p>
			<p>"Fuck " his vocoded voice grinds out over a background of hissing static.</p>
			<p>Lubin's immediately back to business. "Creasy? You made it to Res-F?"</p>
			<p>"No shit I made it. I coulda tuned those fuckers in <i>blind</i>, from the Sargasso fucking Sea "</p>
			<p>"Have any of them left the complex?"</p>
			<p>"No, I—I don't think so, I—but fuck, man, there's a <i>lot</i> of them in there, and—"</p>
			<p>"How many, exactly?"</p>
			<p>"I don't <i>know</i>, exactly! Coupla dozen at least. But look, Lubin, there's somethin' off about 'em, about the way they send. I've never felt it before."</p>
			<p>Lubin takes a breath: Clarke imagines his eyeballs rolling beneath the caps. "Could you be more specific?"</p>
			<p>"They're <i>cold</i>, man. Almost all of 'em are like, fucking <i>ice</i>. I mean, I can tune 'em in, I know they're there, but I can't tell what they're feeling. I don't know if they're feeling <i>anything</i>. Maybe they're doped up on something. I mean, next to these guys <i>you're</i> a blubbering crybaby "</p>
			<p>Lubin and Clarke exchange looks.</p>
			<p>"I mean, no offense," Creasy buzzes after a moment.</p>
			<p>"One of Alyx's friends had a head cheese," Clarke says. "She called it a <i>pet</i> "</p>
			<p>And down here in this desert at the bottom of the ocean, in this hand-to-mouth microcosm, how common does something have to be before you'd give one to your ten-year-old daughter as a plaything?</p>
			<p>"Go," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>Lubin's squid is tethered to a cleat just offside the ventral 'lock. Clarke cranks the throttle; the vehicle leaps forward with a hydraulic whine.</p>
			<p>Her jawbone vibrates with sudden input. Lubin's voice fills her head: "Creasy, belay my last order. Do not plant your charge, repeat, no charge. Plant the phone only, and withdraw. Cheung, keep your people at least twenty meters back from the airlock. Do not engage. Clarke is en route. She will advise."</p>
			<p><i>I will advise</i>, she thinks, <i>and they will tell me to go fuck myself.</i></p>
			<p>She's navigating blind, by bearing alone. Usually that's more than enough: at this range Atlantis should be a brightening smudge against the blackness. Now, nothing. Clarke brings up sonar. Green snow fuzzes ten degrees of forward arc: within it, the harder echoes of Corpseland, blurred by interference.</p>
			<p>Now, just barely, she can see brief smears of dull light; they vanish when she focuses on them. Experimentally, she ignites her headlight and looks around.</p>
			<p>Empty water to port. To starboard the beam sweeps across a billowing storm front of black smoke converging on her own vector. Within seconds she'll be in the thick of it. She kills the light before the smokescreen has a chance to turn it against her.</p>
			<p>Somehow, the blackness beyond her eyecaps darkens a shade. She feels no tug of current, no sudden viscosity upon entering the zone. Now, however, the intermittent flashes are a bit brighter; fugitive glimmers of light through brief imperfections in the cover. None of them last long enough to illuminate more than strobe-frozen instants.</p>
			<p>She doesn't need light. By now, she doesn't even need sonar: she can feel apprehension rising in the water around her, nervous excitement radiating from the rifters ahead, darker, more distant fears from within the spheres and corridors passing invisibly beneath her.</p>
			<p>And something else, something both familiar and alien, something living but not <i>alive.</i></p>
			<p>The ocean hisses and snaps around her, as though she were trapped within a swarm of euphausiids. A click-train rattles faintly against her implants. She almost hears a voice, vocoded, indistinct; she hears no words. Echoes light up her sonar display right across the forward one-eighty, but she's deep in white noise; she can't tell whether the contacts number six or sixty.</p>
			<p>Fear-stained bravado, just ahead. She pulls hard right, can't quite avoid the body swimming across her path. The nebula opens a brief, bright eye as they collide.</p>
			<p>"<i>Fuck!</i> Clarke, is that y—"</p>
			<p>Gone. Near-panic falling astern, but no injury: the brain lights up a certain way when the body breaks. It may have been Baker. It's getting so hard to tell, against this rising backdrop of icy sentience. Thought without feeling. It spreads out beneath the messy tangle of human emotions like a floor of black obsidian.</p>
			<p>The last time she felt a presence like this, it was wired to a live nuke. The last time, there was only one of them.</p>
			<p>She pulls the squid into a steep climb. More sonar pings bounce off her implants, a chorus of frightened machine voices rise in her wake. She ignores them. The hissing in her flesh fades with each second. Within a few moments she's above the worst of it.</p>
			<p>"Ken, you there?"</p>
			<p>No answer for a moment: this far from the Hab there's a soundspeed lag. "Report," He says at last. His voice is burred but understandable.</p>
			<p>"They've got smart gels down there. A lot of them, I don't know how many, twenty or thirty maybe. Packed together at the end of the wing, probably right in the wet room. I don't know how we didn't pick them up before. Maybe they just...get lost in the background noise until you jam them together."</p>
			<p>Lag. "Any sense of what they're doing?" Back at Juan de Fuca, they were able to make some pretty shrewd inferences from changes in signal strength.</p>
			<p>"No, they're all just—<i>in</i> there. Thinking all over each other. If there was just one or two I might be able to get some kind of reading, but—"</p>
			<p>"They played me," Lubin says overtop of her.</p>
			<p>"Played?" What's that in his voice? Surprise? Uncertainty? Clarke's never heard it there before.</p>
			<p>"To make me focus on F-3."</p>
			<p><i>Anger</i>, she realizes.</p>
			<p>"But what's the point?" she asks. "Some kind of bluff, did they think we'd mistake those <i>things</i> for people?" It seems ridiculous; even Creasy knew there was something off, and he's never met a head cheese before. Then again, what do corpses know about fine-tuning? How would <i>they</i> know the difference?</p>
			<p>"Not a diversion," Lubin murmurs in the void. "No other place they could come out that sonar wouldn't..."</p>
			<p>"Well, what—"</p>
			<p>"Pull them back," he snaps suddenly. "They're mask—they're luring us in and <i>masking</i> something. <i>Pull them b—</i>"</p>
			<p>The abyss <i>clenches</i>.</p>
			<p>It's a brief squeeze around Clarke's body, not really painful. Not up here.</p>
			<p>In the next instant, a sound: <i>Whoompf</i>. A swirl of turbulence. And suddenly the water's full of mechanical screams.</p>
			<p>She spins. The smokescreen below is in sudden motion, shredded and boiling in the wake of some interior disturbance, lit from within by flickering heat-lightning.</p>
			<p>She squeezes the throttle for dear life. The squid drags her down.</p>
			<p>"<i>Clarke!</i>" The sound of the detonation has evidently passed the Nerve Hab. "What's going on?"</p>
			<p>A symphony of tearing metal. A chorus of voices in discord. Not so many as there should be, she realizes.</p>
			<p><i>We must have lost a generator,</i> she realizes dully. <i>I can hear them screaming.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>I can hear them dying</i>
			</p>
			<p>And not just hear them. The cries rise in her head before they reach her ears; raw chemical panic lighting up the reptile brain like sodium flares, the smarter mammalian overlay helpless and confused, its vaunted cognition shattering like cheap crystal in the backwash.</p>
			<p>"<i>Clarke! Report!"</i></p>
			<p>Anger now, thin veins of grim determination among the panic. Lights shine more brightly through the thinning murk. They're the wrong size, somehow, the wrong color. Not rifter lamps. Her sonar squeals in the face of some imminent collision: another squid slews by, out of control, its rider luminous with an agony of broken bones.</p>
			<p>"It wasn't me, I swear it! They did it <i>themselves</i>—"</p>
			<p>Creasy tumbles away, his pain fading into others'.</p>
			<p>Res-F's hull sprawls across sonar, its smooth contours all erased, jagged edges everywhere: the gaping mouths of caves lined with twisted metal teeth. One of them spits something metallic at her; it bounces off the squid with a clank. Vocoder voices grind and grate on all sides. A gap opens in the tattered cloud-bank ahead: Clarke sees a great lumbering shape, an armored cyclops. Its single eye shines balefully with the wrong kind of light. It reaches for her.</p>
			<p>She pulls to port, catches a glimpse of something spinning in the chaos directly ahead. A dark mass thuds flaccidly against the squid's bow and caroms towards her face. She ducks. A diveskinned arm cuffs her in passing.</p>
			<p>"<i>Lenie!</i>"</p>
			<p>Dead gray eyes watch, oblivious and indifferent, as she twists away.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Oh Jesus. Oh God.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Luminous metal monsters stride through the wreckage, stabbing at the wounded.</p>
			<p>She tries to hold it together. "They're coming out of the walls, Ken. They were waiting inside, they blew the hull from <i>inside</i> and they're coming through the walls "</p>
			<p>
				<i>God damn you, Pat. Was this you? Was this you?</i>
			</p>
			<p>She remembers the lopsided chessboard on Lubin's display. She remembers black pieces arranging themselves for an easy rout.</p>
			<p>Only now does she remember: in chess, white always moves first.</p>
			<p>That indifferent, alien intellect is nowhere to be found now. The gels must have turned to homogenous pulp the instant the hull imploded.</p>
			<p>There were more than preshmeshed corpses and smart gels packed in F-3's wet room. There was shrapnel, doubtless arranged in accordance with some theoretical projection of maximum spread. Clarke can see the fragments where they've come to rest—on the hull, embedded in ruptured LOX tanks, protruding from the far side of ragged entry wounds torn through the flesh of comrades and rivals. They look like metal daisies, like the blades of tiny perfect windmills. The mere rebound from the implosion would have been enough to set them soaring, to mow down anyone not already sucked to their death at mach speeds or torn apart on the jagged lip of the breach itself.</p>
			<p>The smokescreen has all but dispersed.</p>
			<p>Lubin's calling a retreat. Most of those able to respond, already have. The preshmeshed figures clambering along the hulled remains of F-3 have to content themselves with the wounded and the dead. They're crabs, ungainly and overweighted. Instead of claws they have needles, long, almost surgical things, extending from their gauntlets like tiny lances.</p>
			<p>"Lenie. Do you read?"</p>
			<p>She floats dumbly overhead, out of reach, watching them stab black bodies. Occasional bubbles erupt from the needle tips, race into the sky like clusters of shuddering silvery mushrooms.</p>
			<p>Compressed air, injected into flesh. You can make a weapon out of almost anything.</p>
			<p>"Lenie?"</p>
			<p>"She could be dead, Ken. I can't find Dale or Abra either."</p>
			<p>Other voices, too fuzzy to distinguish. Most of the white noise generators are still online, after all.</p>
			<p>She tunes in the crabs. She wonders what they must be feeling now. She wonders what <i>she's</i> feeling, too, but she can't really tell. Maybe she feels like a head cheese.</p>
			<p>The corpses, though, down there in their armor, mopping up. No shortage of feelings there. Determination. A surprising amount of fear. Anger, but distant; it isn't driving them.</p>
			<p>Not as much hate as she would have expected.</p>
			<p>She rises. The tableau beneath smears into a diffuse glow of sweeping headlamps. In the further distance the rest of Atlantis lights the water, deceptively serene. She can barely hear buzzing rifter voices; she can't make out any words. She can't tune any of them in. She's all alone at the bottom of the sea.</p>
			<p>Suddenly she rises past some invisible line-of-sight, and her jawbone fills with chatter.</p>
			<p>"—the bodies," Lubin's saying. "Bring terminals at personal discretion. Garcia's waiting under Med for triage."</p>
			<p>"Med won't hold half of us," someone—<i>oh, it's Kevin!</i>—buzzes faintly in the distance. "Way too many injured."</p>
			<p>"Anyone from F-3 not injured and not carrying injured, meet at the cache. Hopkinson?"</p>
			<p>"Here."</p>
			<p>"Anything?"</p>
			<p>"Think so, maybe. We're getting a whole lot of brains in Res-E. Can't tell who, but—"</p>
			<p>"Yeager and Ng, bring your people straight up forty meters. Don't change your lats and longs, but I want everybody well away from the hull. Hopkinson, get your people back to the Med Hab."</p>
			<p>"We're okay—"</p>
			<p>"Do it. We need donors."</p>
			<p>"Jesus," someone says faintly, "We're fucked "</p>
			<p>"No. <i>They</i> are."</p>
			<p>Grace Nolan, still alive, sounding strong and implacable even through the mutilating filter of her vocoder.</p>
			<p>"Grace, they just—"</p>
			<p>"Just <i>what</i>?" she buzzes. "Do you think they're <i>winning</i>? What are they gonna do for an encore, people? Is that trick gonna work again? We've got enough charges to blast out a whole new foundation. Now we're gonna use them."</p>
			<p>"Ken?"</p>
			<p>A brief silence.</p>
			<p>"Look, Ken," Nolan buzzes, "I can be at the cache in—"</p>
			<p>"Not necessary," Lubin tells her. "Someone's already en route."</p>
			<p>"Who's—"</p>
			<p>"Welcome back, by the way," Lubin says to the anonymous soldier. "You know the target?"</p>
			<p>"Yes." A faint voice, too soft and distorted to pin down.</p>
			<p>"The charge has to be locked down within a meter of the mark. Set it and <i>back away fast</i>. Don't spend any more time than absolutely necessary in proximity to the hull, do you understand?"</p>
			<p>"Yes."</p>
			<p>"Acoustic trigger. I'll detonate from here. Blackout lifting in ten."</p>
			<p><i>My God,</i> Clarke thinks, <i>It's you</i></p>
			<p>"Everyone at safe-distance," Lubin reminds the troops. "Blackout lifting <i>now</i>."</p>
			<p>She's well out of the white noise; there's no obvious change in ambience. But the next vocoder she hears, still soft, is clearly recognizable.</p>
			<p>"It's down," Julia Friedman buzzes.</p>
			<p>"Back off," Lubin says. "Forty meters. Stay away from the bottom."</p>
			<p>"Hey Avril," Friedman says.</p>
			<p>"Right here," Hopkinson answers.</p>
			<p>"When you tuned that wing, were there children?"</p>
			<p>"Yeah. Yeah, there were."</p>
			<p>"Good," buzzes Friedman. "Gene always hated kids."</p>
			<p>The channel goes dead.</p>
			<p>At first, she thinks the retribution's gone exactly as expected. The world pulses around her—a dull, almost subsonic drumbeat through brine and flesh and bone—and for all she knows, a hundred or more of the enemy are reduced to bloody paste. She doesn't know how many rifters died in the first exchange, but surely this restores the lead.</p>
			<p>She's in an old, familiar place where it doesn't seem to matter much either way.</p>
			<p>Even the second explosion—same muffled thump, but softer somehow, more distant—even that doesn't tip her off immediately. Secondary explosions would almost be inevitable, she imagines—pipes and powerlines suddenly ruptured, a cascade of high-pressure tanks with their feeds compromised—all kinds of consequences could daisy-chain from that initial burst. Bonus points for the home team, probably. Nothing more.</p>
			<p>But something in the back of her mind says the second blast just <i>felt</i> wrong—the wrong resonance, perhaps, as if one were to ring a great antique church bell and hear a silvery tinkle. And the voices, when they come back online, are not cheering their latest victory over the rampaging Corpse Hordes, but so full of doubt and uncertainty that not even the vocoders can mask it.</p>
			<p>"What the fuck was <i>that</i>—"</p>
			<p>"Avril? Did you feel that out your way?"</p>
			<p>"Avril? Anybody catching—anyone "</p>
			<p>"Jesus fucking Christ, Gardiner? David? Stan? <i>Anyone—</i>"</p>
			<p>"Garcia, are you—I'm not getting—"</p>
			<p>"It's gone. I'm right here, it's just fucking <i>gone</i> "</p>
			<p>"What are you talking about?"</p>
			<p>"The whole bottom of the hab, it's just—it must've set them <i>both</i>—"</p>
			<p>"Both <i>what</i>? She only set one charge, and that was on—"</p>
			<p>"Ken? Ken? Lubin, <i>where the fuck are you?</i>"</p>
			<p>"This is Lubin."</p>
			<p>Silence in the water.</p>
			<p>"We've lost the med hab." His voice is like rusty iron.</p>
			<p>"What <i>—</i>"</p>
			<p>"How did—"</p>
			<p>"<i>Shut the fuck up</i>," Lubin snarls across the nightscape.</p>
			<p>There's silence again, almost. A few, on open channels, continue to emit metal groans.</p>
			<p>"Evidently an unpacked charge was attached to the hab," Lubin continues. "It must have been set off by the same signal we used on Atlantis. From this point on, no omnidirectional triggers. There may be other charges set to detonate on multiple pings. Everyone—"</p>
			<p>"<i>This is Atlantis speaking.</i>"</p>
			<p>The words boom across the seabed like the Voice of God, unsullied by any interference. <i>Ken forgot to black back out</i>, Clarke realizes. <i>Ken's started</i> shouting <i>at the troops.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>Ken's losing it</i>
			</p>
			<p>"You may think you are in a position of strength," the voice continues. "You are not. Even if you destroy this facility, your own deaths are assured."</p>
			<p>She doesn't recognize the voice. Odd. It speaks with such authority.</p>
			<p>"You are infected with Mark II. You are <i>all</i> infected. Mark II is highly contagious during an asymptomatic incubation period of several weeks. Without intervention you will all be dead within two months.</p>
			<p>"We have a cure."</p>
			<p>Dead silence. Not even Grace Nolan says <i>I told you so</i>.</p>
			<p>"We've tripwired all relevant files and cultures to prevent unauthorized access. Kill us and you kill yourselves."</p>
			<p>"Prove it," Lubin replies.</p>
			<p>"Certainly. Just wait a while. Or if you're feeling impatient, do that mind-reading trick of yours. What do you call it? <i>Tuning in</i>? I'm told it separates the trustworthy from the liars, most of the time."</p>
			<p>Nobody corrects him.</p>
			<p>"State your terms," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>"Not to you. We will only negotiate with Lenie Clarke."</p>
			<p>"Lenie Clarke may be dead," Lubin says. "We haven't been able to contact her since you blew the res." He must know better: she's high in the water, her insides resonating to the faint tapping of click trains. She keeps quiet. Let him play out the game in his own way. It might be his last.</p>
			<p>"That would be very bad news for all of us," Atlantis replies calmly. "Because this offer expires if she's not at Airlock Six within a half hour. That is all."</p>
			<p>Silence.</p>
			<p>"It's a trick," Nolan says.</p>
			<p>"Hey, <i>you</i> said they had a cure," someone else buzzes—Clarke can't tell who, the channels are fuzzing up again. The white noise generators must be back online.</p>
			<p>"So what if they do?" Nolan buzzes. "I don't trust them to share it with us, and I <i>sure</i> as shit don't trust Lenie fucking Clarke to be my ambassador. How do you think those fuckers found out about fine-tuning in the first place? Every one of our dead is thanks to her."</p>
			<p>Clarke smiles to herself. <i>Such small numbers she concerns herself with. Such a tiny handful of lives.</i> She feels her fingers clenching on the towbar. The squid gently pulls her forward; the water gently tugs her back.</p>
			<p>"We can do what they say. We can tune them in, check out the story." She thinks that's Gomez, but the interference is rising around her as she travels. She's lost even the crude intonations of vocoded speech.</p>
			<p>A buzz in her jaw: a beep just behind her ear. Someone tagging her on a private channel. Probably Lubin. He's King Tactical, after all. He's the one who knows where she is. Nobody else can see beyond the stumps of their own shattered limbs.</p>
			<p>"And it proves what? That they're gonna " —static— "it to us? Shit, even if they <i>don't</i> have a cure they've probably convinced a bunch of their buddies that they <i>do</i>, just so we won't be " Nolan's voice fades out.</p>
			<p>Lubin says something on open channel. Clarke can't make out the words. The beeping in her head seems more urgent now, although she knows that's impossible; the ambient hiss is drowning that signal along with all the others.</p>
			<p>Nolan again: "Fuck off, Ken. Why we ever liste you can't even outsmart ing corp "</p>
			<p>Static, pure and random. Light, rising below. Airlock Six is dead ahead, and all the static in the world can't drown out the single presence waiting behind it.</p>
			<p>Clarke can tell by the guilt. There's only one other person down here with so twisted a footprint.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
