<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>The Trigonometry of Salvation</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">The Trigonometry of Salvation</h3>
			<p><i>This does not parse,</i> Lubin thought.</p>
			<p>Mid-June on the forty-fourth parallel. Fifteen or twenty minutes after sunset—say, about five degrees of planetary rotation. Which would put eclipse altitude at about thirty-three kilometers. The missiles had dropped into shadow four or five seconds before detonation, if this witness was to be trusted. Assuming the usual reentry velocity of seven kilometers per second, that put actual detonation at an altitude no greater than five thousand meters, probably much lower.</p>
			<p>She'd reported an airburst. Not an impact, and not a fireball. Fireworks, she'd called them. And always at twilight, or during darkness.</p>
			<p>The sun was just clearing the ridge to the east when he arrived at the back door of Penobscot Power's abandoned enterprise. <i>Phocoena</i> and the doctor's MI had coexisted briefly in the bowels of those remains; her service tunnel had run along the spine of a great subterranean finger of ocean, sixty meters wide and a hundred times as long, drilled through solid bedrock. At the time of its conception it had been a valiant recreation of the lunar engine that drove the tides of Fundy, two hundred klicks up the coast. Now it was only a great flooded sewer pipe, and a way for shy submarines to slip inland unobserved.</p>
			<p>None of which was obvious from here, of course. From here, there was only a scorched chain-link fence, carbon-coated rectangles of metal that had once proclaimed <i>No Trespassing</i>, and—fifty meters on the other side, where the rock rose from the earth—a broken-toothed concrete-and-rebar mouth in the face of the ridge. One of the gate's two panels swung creaking in the arid breeze. The other listed at an angle, stiff in its hinges.</p>
			<p>He stood with his back to the gate. He raised his arm and held it. He remembered where the doctor had pointed, corrected his angle.</p>
			<p><i>That way</i>.</p>
			<p>Just a few degrees over the horizon. That implied either a high distant sighting or a much closer, low-altitude one. Atmospheric inversions were strongest during twilight and darkness, Lubin remembered. They were generally only a few hundred meters thick, and they tended to act as a blanket, holding released particulates close to the ground.</p>
			<p>He walked south. Flame still flickered here and there, consuming little pockets of left-over combustibles. A morning breeze was rising, coming in from the coast. It promised cooler temperatures and cleaner air; now, though, ash still gusted everywhere. Lubin coughed up chalky phlegm and kept going.</p>
			<p>The doctor had given him a belt to go with the grenades. The little aerosol explosives bumped against his hips as he walked. He kept the gun in hand, aiming absently at convenient targets, stumps and powdered shrubs and the remains of fenceposts. There wasn't much left to point at. His imagination invested what there was with limbs and faces. He imagined them bleeding.</p>
			<p>Of course, his witness had hardly been a GPS on legs. There were so many errors nested in her directions that correcting for wind speed was tantamount to adding one small error to a half-dozen larger ones. Still, Lubin was nothing if not systematic. There was a reasonable chance that he was within a kilometer of the starburst's coordinates. He turned east for a few minutes, to compensate for the breeze. Then he popped the first grenade onto his pistol and fired at the sky.</p>
			<p>It soared into the air like a great yellow egg and exploded into a fluorescent pink cloud twenty meters across.</p>
			<p>He watched it dissipate. The first tatters followed the prevailing winds, tugging the cloud into an ovoid, delicate cotton-candy streamers drifting from its downstream end. After a few moments, though, it began to disperse laterally as well, its component particles instinctively sniffing the air for signs of treasure.</p>
			<p>No obvious movement against the wind. That would have been too much to hope for, this early in the game.</p>
			<p>He fired the next grenade a hundred meters diagonally upwind of the first; the third, a hundred meters from each of the others, the closing point of a roughly equilateral triangle. He zigzagged his way across the wasted landscape, kicking little drifts of ash where bracken and shrubbery had clustered a day earlier, navigating endless rocky moguls and fissures. Once he even hopped across a scorched streambed, still trickling, fed by some miraculous source further upstream than the flamethrowers had reached. At rough, regular intervals he shot another absurd pink cloud into the sky, and watched it spread, and moved on.</p>
			<p>He was aiming his eighth grenade when he noticed the residue of the seventh behaving strangely. It had started as puffy round cumulus, like all the others. Now, though, it was streaked and streaming, as though being stretched by the wind. Which would indeed have been the case, if it had been streaming <i>with</i> the breeze instead of <i>across</i> it.</p>
			<p>And another cloud, more distant and dissipated, seemed to be breaking the same rules. They didn't flow, these aerosol streams, not to the naked eye. Rather, they seemed to <i>drift</i> against the wind, towards some point of convergence back the way Lubin had come, about thirty degrees off his own track.</p>
			<p>And they were losing altitude.</p>
			<p>He started after them. The motes in those clouds couldn't be called intelligent by any stretch of the word, but they knew what they liked and they had the means to get to it. They were olfactory creatures, and they loved the smell of two things above all else. The first was the protein signatures put out by a wide array of weaponised biosols; they tracked that aroma like sharks sniffing blood in the water, and when they finally found that ambrosia and rolled around in it they <i>changed</i>, chemically. That was the other thing these creatures loved: the smell of their own kind, fulfilled.</p>
			<p>It was the classic biomagnifying one-two punch. Too often, traces of one's quarry were too faint to do more than whisper to a few passing motes. Those would lock on, enzyme-to-substrate, and achieve their own personal nirvana — but that very merger would quench the emissions that had lured them in the first place. The contaminant would be flagged, but the flag would be far too small to catch any mammalian eye.</p>
			<p>But to be aroused not only by prey, but by others similarly aroused—why, it scarcely mattered whether there was enough to go around. A single offending particle would be enough to start an orgiastic fission reaction. Each subsequent arrival would only brighten the collective signal.</p>
			<p>Lubin found it half-buried in the gravel bed of a shallow gully. It looked like a snub-nosed bullet thirty centimeters long, perforated by rows of circular holes along half its length. It looked like the salt shaker of a giant with pathologically high blood pressure. It looked like the business end of a multiheaded suborbital device for the delivery of biological aerosols.</p>
			<p>Lubin couldn't tell what color it had originally been. It was dripping with fluorescent pink goo.</p>
			<p>Ouellete's MI changed before his eyes on the final steps of his approach. Bright holographic phantoms resolved within the vehicle—the plastic skin grew translucent, exposing neon guts and nerves beneath. Lubin was still getting used to such visions. His new inlays served up the diagnostic emissions of any unshielded machinery within a twelve meter radius. This particular vehicle wasn't quite as forthcoming as he would have liked, though. It was riddled with tumors: rectangular shadows beneath the dash, dark swathes across the passenger door, a black unreflective cylinder rising through the center of the vehicle like a dark heart. The MI had a lot of security, all of it shielded.</p>
			<p>Clarke and Ouellette stood to one side, watching him approach. Ouellette was nothing special to Lubin's new eyes. Dim sparkles glimmered from within Clarke's thorax, but they told him nothing; inlays and implants spoke different dialects.</p>
			<p>He toggled the inlays; the hallucinatory schematics imploded, leaving dull plastic and white dust and nonluminous flesh and clothing behind.</p>
			<p>"You found something," Ouellette said. "We saw the clouds."</p>
			<p>He told them.</p>
			<p>Ouellette stared, openmouthed: "They're shooting <i>germs</i> at us? We're already on our last legs! Why bother hitting us with Megapox or Supercol when we're already—"</p>
			<p>She stopped. The outrage on her face gave way to a puzzled frown.</p>
			<p>Clarke looked the question over the doctor's confusion: <i>ß-max</i>? Lubin shrugged.</p>
			<p>"Perhaps N'Am isn't dying fast <i>enough</i>," Lubin remarked. "A significant number of M&amp;Ms regard ßehemoth as divine retribution for North America's sins. It's official policy in Italy and Libya, at least. Botswana too, I believe."</p>
			<p>Clarke snorted. "North <i>America's</i> sins? They think it just stops at the Atlantic?"</p>
			<p>"The moderates think they can keep it at bay," Ouellette said. "The extremists don't <i>want</i> to. They don't get into heaven until the world ends." Her mind seemed elsewhere; she spoke as if absently flicking at some hovering insect.</p>
			<p>Lubin let her think. She was, after all, the closest available approximation to a native guide. Perhaps she could come up with something.</p>
			<p>"Who are you people?" Ouellette asked quietly.</p>
			<p>"Excuse me?"</p>
			<p>"You're not feral. You're not clave. You sure as hell aren't CSIRA or you'd be better equipped. Maybe you're TransAt—but that doesn't fit either." A faint smile passed across her face. "You don't know what you're doing, do you? You're making it up as you go along..."</p>
			<p>Lubin kept his face neutral and his question on target. "Is there any reason <i>not</i> to believe that people might launch a biological attack against North America simply to—hasten things along?"</p>
			<p>She seemed to find this amusing. "You don't get out much, do you?"</p>
			<p>"Am I wrong?"</p>
			<p>"You're not wrong." Ouellette spat on the ashy ground. "Lots of folks might help Providence along, if they had the chance. That doesn't mean this is an attack."</p>
			<p>"What else would it be?"</p>
			<p>"Maybe it's a counteragent."</p>
			<p>Clarke looked up at that. "A cure?"</p>
			<p>"Not so personal, maybe. Something that kills ßehemoth in the wild."</p>
			<p>Lubin eyed Ouellette. She eyed him back, and answered his unspoken skepticism: "Of course there are crazies out there who want the world to end. But there have to be a lot more people who don't, wouldn't you agree? And they'd be working just as hard."</p>
			<p>There was something in her eyes that hadn't been there before. They almost shone.</p>
			<p>He nodded. "But if this <i>is</i> a counteragent, why do you suppose they tried to shoot it down? And why deliver it suborbitally? Wouldn't it be more efficient to leave deployment to the local authorities?"</p>
			<p>Ouellette rolled her eyes. "<i>What</i> local authorities?"</p>
			<p>Clarke frowned. "Wouldn't someone have told—everybody? Wouldn't someone have told <i>you</i>?"</p>
			<p>"Laurie, you make something like this too public and you're painting a bullseye on your chest for the M&amp;Ms. As for missile defense—" Ouellette turned back to Lubin— "Did the people on your planet ever mention something called the Rio Insurrection?"</p>
			<p>"Tell us about it," Lubin said. Thinking: <i>Laurie</i>?</p>
			<p>"I can't, really," Ouellette admitted. "Nobody really knows what happened. They say maybe a bunch of Madonnas got into CSIRA's Rio de Janeiro offices and went crazy. Launched attacks all over the place."</p>
			<p>"Who won?"</p>
			<p>"The good guys. At least, Rio got vaporized and the trouble stopped, but who knows? Some people say that it wasn't Lenies at all, it was some kind of civil war between rogue 'lawbreakers. But whatever it was, it was—way out there." She waved a hand at the horizon. "We had our own problems to deal with. And the only real moral of the story is, nobody knows who's running things any more, or whose side they're on, and we're all too busy hanging on by our fingernails to afford the time for any Big Questions. For all we know N'Am's battellites are running on autopilot, and ground control just lost the access codes. Or the Lenies are doing a little target practice. Or—or maybe the M&amp;Ms have someone on the inside. The fact that something's shooting at these bugs doesn't prove anything, one way or another."</p>
			<p>Lubin focused on that. "No proof."</p>
			<p>"So I'm going to get some. I'm going to sequence the bug. Now are you going to let me drive back to the scene, or am I going to have to walk?"</p>
			<p>Lubin said nothing. From the corner of his eye, he saw Clarke open her mouth and close it again.</p>
			<p>"Fine." Ouellette proceeded to the back of her van and opened the access panel. Lubin let her extract a steriwrap cartridge and a collapsible stretcher with ground-effector coils built into the frame. She looked at him calmly: "It'll fit on this?"</p>
			<p>He nodded.</p>
			<p>Clarke held the folded device against Ouellette's back while the doctor cinched the shoulder straps. Ouellette nodded cursory thanks and started down the road, not looking back.</p>
			<p>"You think she's wrong," Clarke said as the other woman dwindled, shimmering in the rising heat.</p>
			<p>"I don't know."</p>
			<p>"What if she isn't?"</p>
			<p>"It doesn't matter."</p>
			<p>"It doesn't matter." Clarke shook her head, almost amused. "Ken, are you crazy?"</p>
			<p>Lubin shrugged. "If she can get a usable sample, we'll know whether it's ß-max. Either way, we can drive to Bangor and use her credentials to get inside. After that it should be—"</p>
			<p>"Ken, did you even hear what she just said? There could be a <i>fix</i>. For <i>ßehemoth</i>."</p>
			<p>He sighed.</p>
			<p>"This is exactly why I didn't want you coming," he said at last. "You've got your own agenda, and it's not what we're here for. You get distracted."</p>
			<p>"<i>Distracted?</i>" She shook her head, astonished. "I'm talking about saving the <i>world</i>, Ken. I don't think I'm <i>distracted</i> at all."</p>
			<p>"No, you don't. You think you're damned."</p>
			<p>Instantly, something in her shut down.</p>
			<p>He pushed on anyway. "I don't agree, for what it's worth."</p>
			<p>"Really." Clarke's face was an expressionless mask.</p>
			<p>"I'd say you're only obsessed. Which is still problematic."</p>
			<p>"Go on."</p>
			<p>"You think you destroyed the world." Lubin looked around at the scorched landscape. "You think this is all your fault. You'd give up the mission, your life, mine. In an instant. Just so long as you saw the slightest chance of salvation. You're so sick of the blood on your hands you'd barely notice that you were washing it off with even more."</p>
			<p>"Is that what you think."</p>
			<p>He looked at her. "Is there anything you <i>wouldn't</i> do, then? For the chance to take it all back?"</p>
			<p>She held his gaze for long seconds. Finally she looked away.</p>
			<p>Lubin nodded. "You've personalized the Greater Good in a way I've never seen in a baseline human before. I wonder if your brain hasn't concocted its own form of Guilt Trip."</p>
			<p>She stared at the ground. "It doesn't change anything," she whispered at last. "Even if my motives are—personal..."</p>
			<p>"It's not your motives that worry me. It's your judgment."</p>
			<p>"We're still talking about saving the world."</p>
			<p>"No," he said. "We're talking about someone <i>else</i>, <i>trying</i> to—<i>possibly</i>. We're talking about an entire country or consortium, far better-equipped and better-informed than two hitchhikers from the Mid Atlantic Ridge. <i>And—</i>" holding up his hand against her protest—"we are <i>also</i> talking about <i>other</i> powerful forces who <i>may</i> be trying to stop them, for reasons we can only guess at. Or perhaps for no reason at all, if Ouellette's speculations are correct. We're not players in this, no matter how desperately you wish we were."</p>
			<p>"We've always been players, Ken. We've just been too scared to make a move for the past five years."</p>
			<p>"And things have changed during that time."</p>
			<p>She shook her head. "We have to try."</p>
			<p>"We don't even know the rules any more. And what about the things we <i>can</i> change? What about Atlantis? What about the rifters? What about <i>Alyx</i>? Do you really want to throw away any chance of helping them in favor of a lost cause?"</p>
			<p>He knew the instant he said it that he'd miscalculated. Something flared in her, something icy and familiar and utterly unswayable. "How <i>dare</i> you," she hissed. "You never gave a shit about Alyx or Grace or—or even <i>me</i>, for that matter. You were ready to kill us all, you switched sides every time the odds changed." Clarke shook her head in disgust. "How <i>dare</i> you talk about <i>loyalty</i> and <i>saving lives</i>. You don't even know what that <i>means</i> unless someone feeds it to you as a mission parameter."</p>
			<p>He should have known it would be no use arguing with her. She wasn't interested in assessing the odds of success. She wasn't even balancing payoffs, weighing Atlantis against the rest of the world. The only variables she cared about came from inside her own head, and neither guilt nor obsession were amenable to cost-benefit analysis.</p>
			<p>Even so, her words provoked a strange feeling in his throat.</p>
			<p>"Lenie, I didn't mean—"</p>
			<p>She held up her hand and refused to meet his eyes. He waited.</p>
			<p>"Maybe it's not even your fault," she said after a while. "They just built you that way."</p>
			<p>He allowed himself the curiosity. "What way?"</p>
			<p>"You're an army ant. You just bull ahead with your feelers on the ground, following your <i>orders</i> and your <i>mission</i> <i>profiles</i> and your <i>short-term objectives</i>, and it never even occurs to you to look up and see the big picture."</p>
			<p>"I see it," Lubin admitted softly. "It's very much bigger than you seem willing to admit."</p>
			<p>She shook her head, still not looking at him.</p>
			<p>He tried again. "Very well. You know the big picture: what do <i>you</i> suggest we do with that information? Can you offer anything beyond wishful thinking? Do you have any kind of strategy for <i>saving the world</i>, as you put it?"</p>
			<p>"I do," said Taka Ouellette.</p>
			<p>They turned. She stood back beside the MI, arms folded. She'd obviously ditched the stretcher and circled back while they weren't looking.</p>
			<p>Lubin blinked in astonishment. "Your sample—"</p>
			<p>"From that warhead you found? Not a chance. The tracers would've metabolized any active agent down to the atoms."</p>
			<p>Clarke shot him a look, clear as binary even through the frosting on her eyes: <i>Not quite on your game, superspy? Letting some dick-ass country doctor sneak up on you?</i></p>
			<p>"But I know how we can <i>get</i> a sample," Ouellette continued, looking straight at Clarke. "And I could use your help."</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
