<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Expiration Date</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" data-parent="division-2">
		<section id="chapter-2-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Expiration Date</h3>
			<p>Equal parts dead and alive— and hardly caring which way the balance went—Taka Ouellette had figured it out.</p>
			<p>She'd never done well under pressure. That had always been her problem. And Achilles the monster hadn't understood that. Or maybe he'd understood it too well. Whatever. He had put her under the mother of all high-pressure scenarios, and of course she'd fallen apart. She'd proven once again to be the eternal fuck-up. And it was so unfair, because she <i>knew</i> she had a good head on her shoulders, she <i>knew</i> she could figure things out if only people would stop leaning on her. If only Ken hadn't been there with his biowar canister, expecting answers <i>right now</i>. If only Achilles hadn't come within a hair of incinerating her alive, and then rushing her through Seppuku's gene sequence without so much as letting her catch her breath.</p>
			<p>If only Dave hadn't been so impatient. If only she hadn't hurried on that last crucial diagnostic...</p>
			<p>She was a smart lady. She knew it. But she was terrible under pressure. <i>Bad, bad Alice</i>, she chided herself.</p>
			<p>But now that the pressure was off, see how well she put everything together?</p>
			<p>It had only taken two things to get her over the hump. Achilles had to leave her alone for a bit, give her a chance to think. And she had to die. Well, start dying anyway. Once she knew she was dead, once she <i>felt</i> it in her bones, no reprieves, no last-minute rescue—all the pressure disappeared. For the first time in her life, it seemed, she could think clearly.</p>
			<p>She didn't know how long it had been since Achilles had been by to torture her. She figured at least a day or two. Maybe a week—but no, surely she'd be dead already if he'd left her here for a whole week? Her joints had frozen up in the meantime. Even if she were to be released from the exoskeleton, her body was as rigid as rigor...</p>
			<p>Maybe it <i>was</i> rigor. Maybe she'd already finished dying and hadn't noticed. Certainly things didn't seem to hurt as much as they had—although maybe she just didn't notice the pain so much now, on account of the raging thirst. One thing you could say about Achilles, he'd always kept her fed and watered. Didn't want her too weak to perform, he'd said.</p>
			<p>But it had been so very long since he'd come by. Taka would have killed for a glass of water, if she hadn't already died for want of one.</p>
			<p>But wasn't it nice that nothing <i>mattered</i> any more? And wasn't it nice that she'd actually <i>figured it out</i>?</p>
			<p>She wished that Achilles <i>would</i> come back. Not just for the water, although that would be nice. She wanted to show him. She wanted to prove he was wrong. She wanted him to be proud of her.</p>
			<p>It all had to do with that silly little song about the fleas. He must have known that, that's why he'd serenaded her in the first place. <i>Has smaller fleas that on him prey, and these have smaller still to bite 'em...</i></p>
			<p>Life within life. She could see it now. She was amazed that she'd never seen it before. It wasn't even a new concept. It was downright <i>old</i>. Mitochondria were <i>littler fleas</i> that lived in every eukaryotic cell. Today they were vital organelles, the biochemical batteries of life itself—but a billion years ago they'd been independent organisms in their own right, little free-living bacteria. A larger cell had engulfed them, had forgotten to chew before it swallowed—and so they'd struck up a deal, the big cell and the little one. The big cell would provide a safe, stable environment; the little one, in turn, would pump out energy for its host. That ancient act of failed predation had turned into the primordial symbiosis...and even today, mitochondria kept their own genes, reproduced on their own schedule, within the flesh of the host.</p>
			<p>It was still going on. Behemoth itself had stuck up a similar relationship within the cells of some of the creatures that shared its deep-sea environment, providing an energy surplus which the host fish used to grow faster. It grew within the cells of things here on land, too—with somewhat less beneficial consequences, true, but then virulence is always high when two radically disparate organisms encounter each other for the first time...</p>
			<p>Achilles hadn't been singing about fleas at all. He'd been singing about <i>endosymbiosis</i>.</p>
			<p><i>Seppuku</i> must carry its own little fleas. There was more than enough room—all those redundant genes could code for any number of viral organisms, as well as merely masking the suicidal recessives. <i>Seppuku</i> not only killed itself off when its job was done—it gave birth to a <i>new</i> symbiont, a viral one probably, that would take up residence inside the host cell. It would fill the niche so effectively that Behemoth would find nothing but <i>no-vacancy</i> signs if it came sniffing around afterwards, looking to move back in.</p>
			<p>There were even precedents, of a sort. Taka remembered some of them from med school. Malaria had been beaten when baseline mosquitoes lost out to a faster-breeding variant that didn't transmit <i>Plasmodium</i>. AIDS stopped being a threat when benign strains outnumbered lethal ones. Those were nothing, though, diseases that attacked a handful of species at most. Behemoth threatened everything with a nucleus; you'd never beat the witch by infecting the Human race, or replacing one species of insect with another. The only way to win against Behemoth would be to counterinfect <i>everything</i>.</p>
			<p>Seppuku would have to redesign life itself, from the inside out. And it could do it, too: it had an edge that poor old Behemoth had never even dreamed of. Achilles had forced her to remember that too, half an eternity ago: TNA could duplex with modern nucleic acids. It could talk to the genes of its host cell, it could <i>join</i> the genes of its host cell. It could change anything and everything.</p>
			<p>If she was right—and hovering at the edge of her life, she'd never been more certain of anything—Seppuku was more than a cure for Behemoth. It was the most profound evolutionary leap since the rise of the eukaryotic cell. It was a solution far too radical for the fiddlers and tweakers who hadn't been able to see beyond the old paradigm of <i>Life As We Know It</i>. The deep-sea enzymes, the arduous painstaking retrofits that had allowed Taka and others like her to claim <i>immunity</i>—improvised scaffolding, no more. Struts and crutches to keep some teetering body plan alive long after its expiration date. People had grown too attached to the chemical tinkertoys that had defined them for three billion years. The most nostalgia could ever do was postpone the inevitable.</p>
			<p>Seppuku's architects were more radical. They'd thrown away the old cellular specs entirely and started from scratch, they were rewriting the very chemistry of life. Every eukaryotic species would be changed at the molecular scale. No wonder Seppuku's creators had kept it under wraps; you didn't have to be an M&M to be terrified by such an extreme solution. People always chose the devils they knew, even if that devil was Behemoth. People just wouldn't accept that success couldn't be achieved through just a little more tinkering...</p>
			<p>Taka could barely imagine the shape of the success that was unfolding now. Perhaps the strange new insects she'd been seeing were the start of it, fast short lives that evolved through dozens of generations in a season. Achilles hadn't been able to keep it out after all: those joyful, monstrous bugs proved it. He had only been able to keep it from infecting Humanity.</p>
			<p>And even there, he was doomed to fail. Salvation would take root in everything eventually, as it had taken root in the arthropods. It would just take more time for creatures who lived at a slower pace. <i>Our turn will come,</i> Taka thought.</p>
			<p>How would it work? she wondered. How to outcompete the hypercompetitor? Brute force, perhaps? Sheer cellular voracity, the same scramble-competition strategy that Behemoth had used to beat Life 1.0, turned back upon itself? Would life burn twice as bright and half as long, would the whole biosphere move faster, think faster, live furiously and briefly as mayflies?</p>
			<p>But that was the old paradigm, to transform yourself into your enemy and then claim victory. There were other options, once you gave up on <i>reinforcing</i> and turned to <i>redesign</i> instead. Taka Ouellette, mediocre progeny of the Old Guard, couldn't begin to guess at what they were. She doubted anyone could. What simulation could predict the behavior of a multimillion-species system when every living variable was perturbed at once? How many carefully-selected experimental treatments would it take to model a billion simultaneous mutations? Seppuku—whatever Seppuku was poised to become—threw the very concept of a <i>controlled experiment</i> out the window.</p>
			<p>North America <i>was</i> the experiment—unannounced, uncontrolled, an inconceivably tangled matrix of multiway ANOVAs and Hyperniche tables. Even if it failed, the world would hardly be worse off. Behemoth would have suffered a major setback, Seppuku would have fallen on its sword, and whatever came after would at least—unlike Behemoth— be limited to the inside of a host cell.</p>
			<p>And maybe it wouldn't fail. Maybe everything would change for the better. There would be monsters, some hopeful. Mitochondria themselves might finally be driven to extinction, their ancient lease expired at last. Maybe people would change from the inside out, the old breed gone, replaced by something that looked the same but acted <i>better.</i></p>
			<p>Maybe it was about fucking time.</p>
			<p>A little man nattered at her from a great distance. He stood in front of her, an irritating homunculus in ultrasharp focus, as if seen through the wrong end of a telescope. He paced back and forth, gesticulating madly. Taka gathered that he was afraid of something, or someone. Yes, that was it: someone was coming for him. He spoke as if his head was full of voices, as if he had lost control of a great many things at once. He threatened her—she <i>thought</i> he was threatening her, although his efforts seemed almost comical. He sounded like a lost little boy trying to act brave while looking for a place to hide.</p>
			<p>"I figured it out," Taka told him. Her voice cracked like cheap brittle plastic. She wondered why that was. "It wasn't so hard."</p>
			<p>But he was too caught up in his own little world. It didn't matter. He didn't seem like the kind of person who'd really appreciate the dawn of a new age anyway.</p>
			<p>So many things were about to happen. The end of <i>Life As We Knew It.</i> The beginning of <i>Life As We Don't</i>. It had already started. Her biggest regret was that she wouldn't be around to see how it all turned out.</p>
			<p><i>Dave</i>,<i> honey,</i> she thought. <i>I did it. I got it right at last.</i></p>
			<p><i>You'd be proud of me</i>.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
