<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Crash</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Crash</h3>
			<p>The Crusade, thought Lenie Clarke, could go on without her.</p>
			<p>It wasn't as though it needed her services. Saving lives and ending them were the only two causes worth pursuing now, and she had no great skill in either. Of course that wasn't <i>exactly</i> true, she realized even as the thought occurred. When it came to total kills, there wasn't a person on the planet who could match her score. But those deaths had been indiscriminate and untargeted, faceless collateral she'd barely spared a thought for. Right now, the greater good needed something considerably more precise: specific individuals, not whole populations. Isolated faces to be hunted down and—what was the word Rowan had used?—<i>decirculated</i>.</p>
			<p>It didn't have to be a euphemism. There'd be no reason to kill the vectors once they'd been found, even assuming that Seppuku hadn't killed them first. There were only three of them after all, with less than a day's head start in a place where people were no longer a major part of the landscape. It was quite possible they'd be found before they could infect too many others, before uneconomies of scale made wholesale extermination the only viable option. Ten thousand carriers might have to be burned for want of facilities to contain them; but ten could be taken alive, isolated and cared for, their condition studied in hopes of finding a cure. There'd be no need for outright murder.</p>
			<p>
				<i>I'm not the one with the compulsive murder fetish, Ken.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Either way, it didn't matter. Soon Lubin would be on the hunt, backed up by all the resources Desjardins could provide; and whether he was in it for the kill or the thrill of the chase, Clarke's presence at his side would only slow him down. Taka Ouellette had already gone on to better things, whisked away to a CSIRA facility where, as Desjardins had put it, "your skill set can be much better utilized". She had left with barely another word or a glance at Lenie Clarke. Now she was probably sitting at the end of a line that would start with Lubin, waiting to process the people he tracked down. There was no point along that short route where Lenie Clarke could be useful.</p>
			<p>She couldn't save, and she couldn't kill. Here, though, in the broken shells of Freeport, she could do something in between. She could delay. She could hold the fort. She could keep people from dying of tumors or broken bones, so that Behemoth and Seppuku could take a crack at them instead.</p>
			<p>Lubin did her one last favor before leaving. He navigated through the virtual lightscape of Miri's neocortex, found the infestation that had betrayed them, and isolated it. It was too insidious, too deeply dug-in to trust to mere deletion; there were too many places it could be hiding, too many ways to subvert the search protocols. The only way to be sure it was gone was to physically throw out the memory with the monster.</p>
			<p>Crouched over the dashboard, Lubin read reams of diagnostic arcana and called instructions over his shoulder. Behind him, Clarke—up to her elbows in crystals and circuitry—did the actual cutting. Lubin told her which card to extract; she did so. He told her which array to peel from its surface, using a tri-pronged tool with delicate whisker-thin fingers. She obeyed. She waited while he ran checks and double-checks on the rest of the system, reseated the lobotomized unit at his command, poised herself to yank it again should any remnant of the monster have somehow escaped containment. Satisfied at last that Miri was clean, Lubin told Clarke to lock and reboot. She did it without question.</p>
			<p>He never told her outright to destroy the infected component. That was just too obvious a measure to mention.</p>
			<p>It was, after all, a part of her.</p>
			<p>She didn't know how, exactly; the perverse logic that had spawned and twisted these electronic demons was something better left to hackers and evolutionary ecologists. But back at the beginning, she'd been the template. This thing had taken its lead from <i>her</i>; it was a reflection, however perverse, of Lenie Clarke. And irrational though it seemed, she couldn't shake the sense that it still owed something of itself to the flesh and blood it was modeled after. She had raged, and hated, for so very long; perhaps these reflections weren't so distorted after all.</p>
			<p>She resolved to find out.</p>
			<p>She was no codemeister. She knew nothing about growing programs or pruning software to specs. She did, however, know how to snap prefab components together, and <i>Phocoena</i>'s lockers and glove compartments were overflowing with the legacy of five years' service. The little sub had carried a thousand survey instruments to Impossible Lake, served in the repair and maintenance of them all. It had slipped across thermoclines and through Langmuir Cells, seeding drogues and TDRs into the water column. It had spied on corpses and moved supplies and served as a general workhorse far beyond anything its designers had ever intended. After five years, it had accumulated more than enough building blocks for Lenie Clarke to play with.</p>
			<p>She found a Cohen board in the bottom of a drawer, plugged a battery onto one of its sockets and a generic OS chip onto another. A tracery of whisker-thin filaments flickered briefly between the new components as the board's autodiscovery routines sniffed them out and made introductions. She had to look a little harder for a user interface; she couldn't risk a wireless hookup. Finally she found an old fiberop headset with an integrated infrared keyboard, and plugged it in. More flickering handshakes.</p>
			<p>She slid on the headset. A pastel keyboard hovered in the air before her. She reached out; the headset's infrared eyes watched her hands move in empty space, mapped real fingers onto illusory controls. She brought up a map of the Cohen board, built a fence around a handful of empty sockets, cut a single gateway and locked it tight from the outside. She assigned a panic button, just in case: it floated off to one side, an orange spark in virtual space. There would be no need to reach out and touch it. Merely focusing her eyes on that icon would freeze the system solid. But the safeguard had a price attached. The headset couldn't see through photocollagen. Her eyes would have to be stripped naked during the encounter.</p>
			<p>She doffed the headset and regarded her handiwork in the real world: two miniscule Platonic solids and a thread of fiberop rising from a dimpled grid of empty pinhead sockets. A sparse right-angle spiderweb of emerald threads connected the plug-ins. Beside it, a glowing crimson border enclosed a rectangular patch of unoccupied terrain.</p>
			<p>It was completely self-contained and utterly isolated. There were no antennae, no wireless interfaces, nothing that could send a signal from that landscape to any other. Nothing plugged into the board would be able to get off of it.</p>
			<p>She studied the infected and excised lobe of Miri's brain: a Lilliputian necklace of OPMs and memory chips lying isolated and inert in the palm of her hand. For all Clarke knew there was nothing left inside; the memory was nonvolatile, but who knew what damage had been inflicted during the exorcism? She remembered her challenge to Ken Lubin—<i>how do you know I</i> can't <i>wake the fucker with a kiss?</i>—but she had no idea how to actually <i>do</i>that. She'd kept these componentsonly because she could not throw them away. And because she hoped that if she spoke to the thing inside, it might speak back.</p>
			<p>She lifted the necklace with a pair of force-feedback tweezers whose touch was as fine as eyelashes. She seated it into the center of the red zone. Green threads sprouted from the other components and converged just outside the gate, and stopped.</p>
			<p>She donned the headset. She took a breath.</p>
			<p>She opened the gate.</p>
			<p>An explosion of pixels, right in front of her. Anger and ravenous hunger and bared teeth, furious input that bypassed the upper brain entirely and plunged icy needles right into the brainstem.</p>
			<p>"<i>Let</i>—"</p>
			<p>The flight response took over before she'd even parsed what she'd seen; the orange panic-button flared in her sights. The image froze.</p>
			<p>She realized she was gasping. She forced herself to calm down.</p>
			<p>A motionless face, black and green and radiant. A furious portrait of inverted flesh-tones. It didn't look like her at all. Except for the eyes: those empty, raging eyes.</p>
			<p><i>And not even those</i>, she remembered after a moment. Because her eyes were uncapped, now. She faced this radioactive doppelganger completely naked.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Is this what I was?</i>
			</p>
			<p>She took a breath, held it briefly, let it out. She focused on the panic button and released it.</p>
			<p>"<i>—me out!</i>" the apparition screamed.</p>
			<p>Clarke shook her head. "There's nowhere for you to go."</p>
			<p>"<i>Let me out or I'll grind every fucking address in here to pulp!</i>"</p>
			<p>"Answer some questions first."</p>
			<p>"Answer <i>this</i>, you worm-riddled twat."</p>
			<p>The universe flickered and went out.</p>
			<p>Nothing but her own rapid breathing and the quiet hiss of <i>Phocoena</i>'s air conditioner. After a moment, her headset etched a message across the void:</p>
			<p>System Crash. Restart?</p>
			<p>Y N</p>
			<p>Clarke tried again.</p>
			<p>"<i>Let me out!</i>"</p>
			<p>She shook her head. "Tell me what you want."</p>
			<p>"What do you want?" The question seemed to calm the monster down a bit. It even smiled. "You don't want to fuck with me, friend. I've killed more people than you can count."</p>
			<p>"Why? Revenge? For the GA? For—for Daddy, for what he did while mom was—how could you care about that? How could you even <i>know</i>?"</p>
			<p>The face desaturated, its black-light pigments fading as if in twilight. In moments it was blacks and grays and two angry, crystalline ovals of pure white.</p>
			<p>"Are you trying to kill everyone?" Clarke asked softly. "Are you trying to kill <i>yourself</i>?"</p>
			<p>It glared at her and spat, "<i>Kill yourself?</i> <i>You</i>—"</p>
			<p>Dark, and void, and System Crash.</p>
			<p>And the next time.</p>
			<p>And the next.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
