<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Gehenna</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Gehenna</h3>
			<p>Taka Ouellette emerged into a nightscape of guttering flame. She drove at a crawl through a hot dry snowfall, the windshield's static field barely keeping the flakes from the glass. Ash flurried white as talc in Miri's headlights, a fog of powdered earth and vegetation blinding her to the road ahead. She killed the lights, but infrared was even worse: countless particles of drifting soot, the brilliant washouts of raw flame, arid little dust-devils and writhing updrafts overloaded the display with false-color artefacts. Finally she settled for an old set of photoamp glasses in the glove compartment. The world resolved into black and white, gray on gray. The viz was still terrible, but at least the interference was in sharp focus.</p>
			<p><i>Maybe there were survivors</i>, she told herself without much hope. <i>Maybe the firestorm didn't reach that far.</i> She was a good ten kilometers from the spot where her MI had risen up and slaughtered the locals. There'd been no closer cover: no storm sewers or parkades more than a few levels deep, and if there'd been any hardened shelters nearby her surviving patients wouldn't have been inclined to tell her about them. So she'd fled east while the contrails arced overhead, buried herself in a service tunnel attached to an abandoned tidal bore drilled in from Penobscot Bay. A few years ago the shamans had promised that bore would keep the lights on from Portland to Eastport, world without end. But of course the world <i>had</i> ended, before the first turbine had even been installed. Now the tunnel did nothing but shield burrowing mammals from the short-term consequences of their own stupidity.</p>
			<p>Ten kilometers over buckled and debris-strewn roads that hadn't seen service since before ßehemoth. It was nothing short of a miracle that Taka had made it to safety before the missiles had hit. Or it would have been, if the missiles had actually caused any of the devastation she was driving through now.</p>
			<p>She was pretty sure they hadn't. In fact, she was pretty sure they'd never even touched the ground.</p>
			<p>The hill she was climbing crested a hundred meters ahead. Fresh wreckage blocked her way halfway up that rise, the remains of some roadside building that had collapsed during the attack. Now it was only a great tumbledown collection of smoking cinder blocks. Not even Taka's eyeglasses could banish the shadows infesting that debris, all straight lines and sharp angles and dark empty parallelograms.</p>
			<p>It was too steep for Miri's limited ground-effectors. Ouellette left the van to its own devices and climbed around the wreckage. The bricks were still hot to the touch. Heat from the scorched earth penetrated the soles of her boots, a subtle warmth, unpleasant only by implication.</p>
			<p>On the uphill side of the debris she passed occasional objects which retained some crumbly semblance of human bones. She was breathing the dead. Perhaps some of those she inhaled would have died even earlier, if not for her efforts. Perhaps some she'd helped today were still alive, in spite of everything. She managed to take some faint comfort in that, until she crested the hill.</p>
			<p>But no.</p>
			<p>The landscape spread out before her was as wasted as the path she'd just climbed: flickering eruptions of white firelight punctuating a vista blackened as much by carbon as by nightfall. The land had not been laid waste by missiles or microbes, not this time. The thing that had done it was still visible in the distance: a tiny dark oval in the sky, barely darker than the cloud bank behind it, hanging a few degrees over the horizon. Taka almost missed it at first, even with the specs. Its outline was fuzzy, sparkling with the faint visual static of errant photons unreasonably boosted.</p>
			<p>But the gouts of flame that poured from its belly in the next instant showed up clearly enough even to naked eyes.</p>
			<p>Not a missile. Not a microbe. A lifter, scouring the distance as it had already scoured the foreground.</p>
			<p>And for all Taka Ouellette knew, she had been the one to bring it here.</p>
			<p>Oh, it wasn't dead certain. Wide-scale incendiary purges still happened under official pretext. There'd actually been a time when they were pretty routine, back in the early panic-stricken days when people thought they might actually be able to contain ßehemoth if they just had the balls to take drastic steps. Those had scaled back when it had grown apparent that N'Am was blowing its whole napalm reserve to no good effect, but they still happened sometimes in some of the wilder zones out west. It was even possible that such steps might have been undertaken without CSIRA bothering to extract their field personnel, although Taka doubted that even she would be left <i>that</i> far out of the loop.</p>
			<p>But not so far from here, not so long ago, she had let a monster escape into the real world. Floods and firestorms always seemed to follow in the wake of such breaches, and Taka had almost forgotten a time when she believed in coincidence.</p>
			<p>There'd be no shortage of proximate causes. Perhaps some rogue autopilot afflicted with faulty programming, tricked by a typographic error into burning the wrong part of the world. Or maybe a human pilot misled by garbled encryption, commands misheard through static and interference. None of those details mattered. Taka knew the bigger question: <i>who</i> had tweaked any code that subverted the automatic pilot? <i>What</i> had garbled instructions heard by the flesh and blood one?</p>
			<p>She knew the answer, too. It would have been obvious to anyone who'd seen the monster in her eyephones, a few hours before. There were no accidents. Noise was never random. And the machinery itself was malign.</p>
			<p>Here, staring out at a photoamplified crematorium stretching to the very horizon, it was the only explanation that made sense.</p>
			<p><i>You were a scientist once</i>, she told herself. <i>You rejected incantations outright. You knew the truths that protected you from bias and woolly-mindedness, and you learned them all by heart: correlation is not causation. Nothing is real until replicated. The mind sees order in noise; trust only numbers.</i></p>
			<p>Incantations of another sort, perhaps. Not very effective ones; they hadn't, for all their familiarity, saved her from the creeping certainty that she'd called an evil spirit into her vehicle. She could rationalize the superstitious awe in her head, justify it even. Her training gave her more than enough tools for that. <i>Spirit</i> was only a word, a convenient label for a virulent software entity forged in the fast-forward Darwinian landscape that had once been called <i>Internet</i>. Taka knew how fast evolutionary changes could be wrought in a system where a hundred generations passed in the blink of an eye. She remembered another time when electronic lifeforms—undesigned, unplanned, and unwanted—had grown so pestilential that the net itself had acquired the name <i>Maelstrom</i>. The things called <i>Lenies</i>, or <i>Shredders</i>, or <i>Madonnas</i>—like the Gospel demons, their names were legion—they were simply exemplars of natural selection. Extremely successful exemplars: on the other side of the world, whole countries abased themselves in their names. Or in the name of the icon on which they were based at least, some semi-mythical cult figure who'd risen to brief prominence on ßehemoth's coattails.</p>
			<p>This was logic, not religion. So what if these things had power beyond imagining, yet no physical substance? So what if they lived in the wires and the wireless spaces between, and moved at the speed of their own electronic thoughts? <i>Demon</i>, <i>spirit</i>—shorthand, not superstition. Only metaphor, with more points of similarity than some.</p>
			<p>And yet, now Taka Ouellette saw mysterious lights flashing in the sky, and found her lips moving in altogether the wrong kind of incantation.</p>
			<p><i>Oh God, save us</i>.</p>
			<p>She turned and headed downhill. She could probably get around the blockage, take some back road to continue on this way, but what was the point? It was a question of cost-benefit analysis, of lives-saved-per-unit-effort. That value would certainly be higher almost anywhere but here.</p>
			<p>The collapsed building loomed ahead of her on the road again, gray and colorless in the amplified light. The angular shadows looked different, more ominous from this angle. They formed crude faces and body parts way past human scale, as if some giant cubist robot had collapsed in an angry heap and was summoning the strength to pull itself back together again.</p>
			<p>As she began to pick her way around the pile, one of the shadows detached itself and moved to block her path.</p>
			<p>"<i>Holy—</i>" Taka gasped. It was only a woman, she saw now, and unarmed—these days you noticed such things almost instinctively—but her heart had been kicked instantly into fight/flight. "Jesus, you scared me."</p>
			<p>"Sorry. Didn't mean to." The woman took another step clear of the debris. She was blonde, dressed entirely in some black skin-tight body stocking from neck to feet; only her hands and head were exposed, pale disembodied pieces against the contrasting darkness. She was a few centimeters shorter than Taka herself.</p>
			<p>There was something about her eyes, too. They seemed too bright, somehow. Probably an artefact of the specs, Taka decided. Light reflecting off the wetness of the cornea, perhaps.</p>
			<p>The woman jerked her chin back over her shoulder. "That your ambulance?"</p>
			<p>"Mobile Infirmary. Yes." Taka glanced around the full three-sixty. She saw no one else. "Are you sick?"</p>
			<p>A laugh, very soft. "Isn't everyone?"</p>
			<p>"I mean—"</p>
			<p>"No. Not yet."</p>
			<p><i>What is it about those eyes</i>? It was hard to tell from this distance—the woman was ten meters away—but it looked like she might be wearing nightshades. In which case she could see Taka Ouellette <i>way</i> better than Taka Ouellette could see her through these fratzing photoamps.</p>
			<p>People in the wildlands did not generally come so well-equipped.</p>
			<p>Taka put her hands casually into her pockets; the act pushed her windbreaker away from the standard-issue Kimber on her hip. "Are you hungry?" she asked. "There's a cycler in the cab. The bricks taste like shit, but if you're desperate..."</p>
			<p>"Sorry about this," the woman said, stepping forward. "Really."</p>
			<p>Her eyes were like blank, translucent balls of ice.</p>
			<p>Taka stepped back instinctively. Something blocked her from behind. She spun and stared into another pair of empty eyes, set in a face that seemed all scarred planes and chipped stone. She didn't reach for her gun. Somehow, he already had it.</p>
			<p>"It's gene-locked," she said quickly.</p>
			<p>"Mmm." He turned the weapon over in his hands. He wore the look of a professional appraiser. "We apologize for the intrusion," he told her, almost absently, "But we need you to disable the security on your vehicle." He did not look at her.</p>
			<p>"We're not going to hurt you," the woman said from behind.</p>
			<p>Taka, unreassured, kept her eyes on the man holding her gun.</p>
			<p>"Certainly not," he agreed, looking up at last. "Not while there are more efficient alternatives."</p>
			<p><i>Bagheera</i> was one password. There were several others. <i>Morris</i> locked down the whole kit and kaboodle, so that not even Taka could start it up again without live authorization. <i>Pixel</i> electrostabbed any passengers who didn't match her pheromone profile. <i>Tigger</i> unlocked the doors and played dead until it heard Taka say <i>Schroedinger</i>: then it locked down and pumped enough halothane into the cab to turn a 110-kg assailant into a sack of jelly for a minimum of fifteen minutes. (Taka herself would be up and at 'em in a mere ninety seconds; when they'd given her the keys to Miri they'd also tweaked her blood with a resistant enzyme.)</p>
			<p>Mobile Infirmaries were chock-full of resources and technology. The wildlands were chock-full of desperate people literally dying for an edge, any edge. Anti-theft measures made every kind of sense, and more than a little irony: when it came right down to it, Miri was far better at killing and incapacitation than it was at healing the sick.</p>
			<p>Now Taka stood beside the driver's door, white-eyed blackbodies on either side. She ran through her options.</p>
			<p>"Tigger," she said. Miri chirped and unlocked the door.</p>
			<p>The woman pulled the door open and climbed into the cab. Taka started to follow. A hand clapped down on her shoulder.</p>
			<p>Taka turned and faced her captor. "It's gene-locked, too. I'll have to reset it if you want to drive."</p>
			<p>"We don't," he told her. "Not yet."</p>
			<p>"The board's dark," the woman said from behind the wheel.</p>
			<p>The hand on her shoulder tightened subtly, pressed forward. Taka felt herself guided to the cab; the other woman slid over into the passenger seat to give her room.</p>
			<p>"Actually," the man said, "I think we'll let the doctor here take the passenger seat." The hand pressed down. Taka ducked in through the driver's side, slid between the seat and the steering stick as the other woman left the cab through the passenger door. The woman grasped the edge of that door and started to push it shut.</p>
			<p>"No," said the man, very distinctly. The woman froze.</p>
			<p>He was behind the wheel now; his hand hadn't come off Taka's shoulder for an instant. "One of us stays outside the cab at all times," he told his partner. "And we leave both doors open."</p>
			<p>His partner nodded. He took his hand off Taka's shoulder and looked at the dark, unhelpful face of the dash.</p>
			<p>"Bring it online," he said. "Touch only, no voice control. Do not start the engine."</p>
			<p>Taka stared back at him, unmoving.</p>
			<p>The blond leaned in over her shoulder. "We weren't bullshitting you," she said quietly. "We <i>really</i> don't want to hurt you, unless there's no choice. I'm betting that's a pretty charitable attitude for these parts, so why are you pushing it?"</p>
			<p><i>These parts.</i> So they were new in town. Not that this came as any great surprise; these two were the furthest thing from wildland refugees that Taka had seen in ages.</p>
			<p>She shook her head. "You're stealing an MI. That's going to hurt a lot more people than me."</p>
			<p>"If you cooperate you can have it back in a little while," the man told her. "Bring it online."</p>
			<p>She keyed the genepad. The dashboard lit up.</p>
			<p>He studied the display. "So I take it you're some sort of itinerant health-care worker."</p>
			<p>"Some sort," Taka said carefully.</p>
			<p>"Where are you out of?" he asked.</p>
			<p>"Out of?"</p>
			<p>"Who sets your route? Who resupplies you?"</p>
			<p>"Bangor, usually."</p>
			<p>"They airlift supplies to you in the field?"</p>
			<p>"When they can spare them."</p>
			<p>He grunted. "Your inventory beacon's disabled."</p>
			<p>He spoke as if it were a surprise.</p>
			<p>"I just radio in when my stocks get too low," Taka told him. "Why would—<i>what are you doing!</i>"</p>
			<p>He paused, fingers poised over the GPS menu he'd just brought up. "I'm fixing some locations," he said mildly. "Is there a problem?"</p>
			<p>"Are you <i>crazy</i>? It's still practically line-of-sight! Do you <i>want</i> it to come back?"</p>
			<p>"Want what to come back?" the woman asked.</p>
			<p>"What do you think did all <i>this</i>?"</p>
			<p>They eyed her expressionlessly. "CSIRA, I expect," the man said after a moment. "This <i>was</i> a containment burn, wasn't it?"</p>
			<p>"It was a <i>Lenie</i>!" Taka shouted. <i>Oh Jesus what if he brings it back, what if he—</i></p>
			<p>Something pulled her around from behind. Glacial eyes bored directly into hers. She could feel the woman's breath against her cheek.</p>
			<p>"What did you just say?"</p>
			<p>Taka swallowed and held herself in check. The panic receded slightly.</p>
			<p>"Listen to me," she said. "It got in through my GPS last time. I don't know how, but if you go online you could bring it back. Right now I wouldn't even risk radio."</p>
			<p>"This thing—" the man began.</p>
			<p>"How can you not <i>know</i> about them?" Taka cried, exasperated</p>
			<p>The two exchanged some indecipherable glance across her.</p>
			<p>"We know," the man said. Taka noted gratefully that he'd shut down GPS. "Are you saying it was responsible for yesterday's missile attack?"</p>
			<p>"No, of course n—" Taka stopped. She'd never considered that before.</p>
			<p>"I never thought so," she said after a moment. "Anything's possible, I guess. Some people say the M&amp;M's recruited them somehow."</p>
			<p>"Who else would have done it?" the woman wondered.</p>
			<p>"Eurasia. Africa. Anyone, really." A sudden thought struck her: "You aren't from—?"</p>
			<p>The man shook his head. "No."</p>
			<p>She couldn't really blame the missile-throwers, whoever they were. According to the dispatches ßehemoth still hadn't conquered the lands beyond Atlantic; those people probably still thought they could contain it if they just sterilized the hot zone. A phrase tickled the back of Taka's mind, some worn-out slogan once used to justify astronomical death tolls. That was it: <i>The Greater Good</i>. "Anyway," she went on, "the missiles never made it through. That's not what all this is."</p>
			<p>The woman stared out the window, where <i>all this</i> was lightening to smoky, pre-dawn gray. "What stopped them?"</p>
			<p>Taka shrugged. "N'Am defense shield."</p>
			<p>"How could you tell?" asked the man.</p>
			<p>"You can see the re-entry trails when the antis come down from orbit. You can see them dim down before they blow up. Smokey starbursts, like fireworks almost."</p>
			<p>The woman glanced around. "So all this, this was your—your <i>Lenie</i>?"</p>
			<p>A snippet from a very old song floated through Taka's mind. <i>There are no accidents 'round here…</i></p>
			<p>"You said <i>starbursts</i>?" the man said.</p>
			<p>Taka nodded.</p>
			<p>"And the contrails dimmed down before detonation."</p>
			<p>"So?"</p>
			<p>"Which contrails? The incoming missiles or the N'Am antis?"</p>
			<p>"How should I know?"</p>
			<p>"You saw this last night?"</p>
			<p>Taka nodded.</p>
			<p>"What time?"</p>
			<p>"I don't know. Listen, I had other things on my mind, I—"</p>
			<p>
				<i>I'd just watched a few dozen people sliced into cold cuts because I might have left a circuit open somewhere...</i>
			</p>
			<p>The man was watching her with a sudden unwavering intensity. His eyes were blank but far from empty.</p>
			<p>She tried to remember. "It was dusk, the sun had been down for—I don't know, maybe fifteen or twenty minutes?"</p>
			<p>"Is that typical of these attacks? Sunset?"</p>
			<p>"I never thought about it before," Taka admitted. "I guess so. Or nighttime, at least."</p>
			<p>"Was there <i>ever</i> an attack that occurred during broad daylight?"</p>
			<p>She thought hard. "I...I can't remember any."</p>
			<p>"How long after the contrails dimmed did the starbursts appear?"</p>
			<p>"Look, I didn't—"</p>
			<p>"<i>How long</i>?"</p>
			<p>"<i>I don't know,</i> okay? Maybe around five seconds or so."</p>
			<p>"How many degrees of arc did the contrails—"</p>
			<p>"Mister, I don't even know what that <i>means</i>."</p>
			<p>The white-eyed man said nothing for what seemed like a very long time. He did not move. Taka got the sense of wheels in motion.</p>
			<p>Finally: "That tunnel you hid in."</p>
			<p>"How did—you followed me? All the way from there? On <i>foot</i>?"</p>
			<p>"It wasn't far," the woman told her. "Less than a kilometer."</p>
			<p>Taka shook her head, amazed. At the time, inching through gusts of scorched earth, it seemed as if she'd been in motion for days.</p>
			<p>"You stopped at the gate. To cut the chain."</p>
			<p>Taka nodded. In hindsight it seemed absurd—the MI could have crashed that barrier in an instant, and the sky was falling.</p>
			<p>"You looked up at the sky," he surmised.</p>
			<p>"Yes."</p>
			<p>"What did you see?"</p>
			<p>"I told you. Contrails. Starbursts."</p>
			<p>"Where was the closest starburst?"</p>
			<p>"I don't—"</p>
			<p>"Get out of the cab."</p>
			<p>She stared at him.</p>
			<p>"Go on," he said.</p>
			<p>She climbed out into gray dawn. There were no more spirits inhabiting the shattered building before her: the rising light stripped away the Rorschach shadows, leaving nothing but a haphazard pile of cinderblocks and I-beams. The few scorched trees still standing nearby, burned past black to ash white, flanked the road like upthrust skeletal hands.</p>
			<p>He was at her side. "Close your eyes."</p>
			<p>She did. If he was going to kill her, there wasn't much she could do about it even with her eyes open.</p>
			<p>"You're at the gate." His voice was steady, soothing. "You're <i>facing</i> the gate. You turn around and look back up the road. You look up at the sky. Go on."</p>
			<p>She turned, eyes still closed, memory filling the gaps. She craned her neck.</p>
			<p>"You see starbursts," the voice continued. "I want you to point at the one that's most directly overhead. The one that's closest to the gate. Remember where it was in the sky, and point."</p>
			<p>She raised her arm and held it steady.</p>
			<p>"What's the deal, Ken?" the woman asked in the void. "Shouldn't we be—"</p>
			<p>"You can open your eyes now," said the m—said <i>Ken</i>. So she did.</p>
			<p>She didn't know who these people were, but she was coming to believe at least one thing they'd told her: they didn't want to hurt her.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Not while there are more efficient alternatives.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She allowed herself a trickle of relief. "Any more questions?"</p>
			<p>"One more. Got any path grenades?"</p>
			<p>"Loads."</p>
			<p>"Do any of them key on bugs that <i>aren't</i> ßehemoth?"</p>
			<p>"Most of them." Taka shrugged. "ßehemoth tracers are kind of redundant hereabouts."</p>
			<p>She dug out the grenades he wanted, and a pistol to fire them. He checked them over with the same eye he'd used on her Kimber. Evidently they passed inspection. "I shouldn't be more than a few hours," he told his partner. He glanced at the MI. "Don't let her start the engine or close the doors, whether she's inside or out."</p>
			<p>The woman looked at Taka, her expression unreadable.</p>
			<p>"Hey," Taka said. "I—"</p>
			<p>Ken shook his head. "Don't worry about it. We'll sort it out when I get back."</p>
			<p>He started off down the road. He didn't look back.</p>
			<p>Taka took a deep breath and studied the other woman. "So you're guarding me, now?"</p>
			<p>The corner of the woman's mouth twitched.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Damn, but those eyes are strange. Can't see anything in there.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She tried again. "Ken seems like a nice enough guy."</p>
			<p>The other woman stared a cold eyeless stare for an instant, and burst out laughing.</p>
			<p>It seemed like a good sign. "So are you two an item, or what?"</p>
			<p>The woman shook her head, still smiling. "What."</p>
			<p>"Not that you asked, but my name's Taka Ouellette."</p>
			<p>Just like that, the smile disappeared.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Oh look Dave, I fouled up again. I always have to go that one step too far...</i>
			</p>
			<p>But the other woman's mouth was moving. " Le—Laurie," it said.</p>
			<p>"Ah." Taka tried to think of something else to say. "Not exactly pleased to meet you," she said at last, trying to keep her tone light.</p>
			<p>"Yeah," Laurie said. "I get that a lot."</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
