<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Turncoat</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Turncoat</h3>
			<p>"That's odd," said Lenie Clarke.</p>
			<p>The periscope had backed off from shore a ways, to get a better northwest view over the trees. The image it conveyed was surprisingly bucolic. It was too far to see Freeport from here—and Freeport's dwellings and businesses had been spread far too widely to present anything approaching a skyline even in the old days— but they should have seen lifters, at least. They should have seen the flames or the smoke by now.</p>
			<p>"It's been three hours," Clarke said, glancing across the cockpit. "Maybe you stopped the signal after all." <i>Or maybe</i>, she mused, <i>we're completely off-base about this whole thing.</i></p>
			<p>Lubin slid one finger a few millimeters along the panel. The 'scope's-eye view panned left.</p>
			<p>"Maybe she made it," Clarke remarked. Such dull, lifeless words for all the meaning they conveyed: <i>Maybe she saved the world.</i></p>
			<p><i>Maybe she saved</i> me <i>.</i></p>
			<p>"I don't think so," Lubin said.</p>
			<p>A pillar of smoke boiled up from behind the crest of a hill, staining the sky brown.</p>
			<p>She felt a tightness in her throat. "Where is that?" she asked.</p>
			<p>"Dead west," Lubin replied.</p>
			<p>They came ashore on the south side of the cove, a slope of smooth stones and gnarled driftwood growing slimy with Behemoth. They followed the sun along a dirt road that had never seen so much as a signpost. The pillar of smoke led them on like a pole star with a half-life, thinning in the sky as they tracked it across paved roads and gravel ones, over the crest of a weathered bump called Snake Hill (judging by the name of the road that ran along its base), on into the setting sun itself. Moments into twilight Lubin stopped, one hand raised in warning.</p>
			<p>By now the once-billowing column was all but exhausted, a few threads of smoke twisting into the sky. But they could see the source, a roughly rectangular patch of scorched woodland at the bottom of the hill. Or rather, a roughly rectangular <i>outline</i>: the center of the area appeared to be unburned.</p>
			<p>Lubin had his binocs out. "See anything?" Clarke asked.</p>
			<p>He <i>hmmm</i> ed.</p>
			<p>"Come on, Ken. What is it?"</p>
			<p>He handed her the binoculars without a word.</p>
			<p>There was disquieting moment when the device tightened itself around her head. Suddenly the world was <i>huge</i>, and in sharp focus. Clarke felt brief vertigo and stepped forward, bracing against sudden illusory imbalance. Twigs and blighted leaves the size of dinner tables swept past in a blur. She zoomed back to get her bearings. Better: there was the scorched earth, there was the patch in its midst, and there was—</p>
			<p>"Oh shit," she murmured.</p>
			<p>Miri sat dead center of the clear zone. It looked undamaged.</p>
			<p>Ouellette stood beside it. She appeared to be conversing with a gunmetal ovoid half her size, hovering a meter over her head. Its carapace was featureless; its plastron bristled with sensors and antennae.</p>
			<p>A botfly. Not so long ago, teleoperated robots just like it had hounded Lenie Clarke across a whole continent.</p>
			<p>"Busted," Lubin said.</p>
			<p>The world was bleaching in Clarke's eyecaps by the time they reached the MI. Ouellette sat on the road with her back against the van, legs bent, arms crossed loosely over knees. She stared listlessly at the pavement between her feet. She looked up at the sound of their approach. The botfly hung overhead like a bodyguard. It showed no visible reaction to their arrival.</p>
			<p>Bleached light wasn't enough to account for the pallor of Ouellette's face. She looked absolutely bloodless. There were wet streaks on her face.</p>
			<p>She looked at Clarke and shook her head. "What <i>are</i> you?" she said. Her voice was as empty as a cave.</p>
			<p>Clarke's throat went dry.</p>
			<p>"You're not just some refugee. You're not just some rifter who's been hiding for five years. You—you <i>started</i> this, somehow. You started it all..."</p>
			<p>Clarke tried to swallow, looked to Lubin. But Lubin's eyes didn't waver from the botfly.</p>
			<p>She spread her hands. "Tak, I—"</p>
			<p>"The monsters in the machines, they're all—you," Ouellette seemed stunned at the sheer magnitude of Clarke's betrayal. "The M&amp;Ms and the fanatics and the death cults, they're all following <i>you</i>..."</p>
			<p><i>They're not</i>, Clarke wanted to shout. <i>I'd stop them all in a second if I could, I don't know</i> how any <i>of it got started</i>—</p>
			<p>But that would be a lie, of course. Maybe she hadn't formally founded the movements that had sprung up in her wake, but that didn't make them any less faithful to the thing she'd been. They were the very essence of the rage and hatred that had driven her, the utter indifference to any loss but her own.</p>
			<p>They hadn't done it for her, of course. The seething millions had their own reasons for anger, vendettas far more righteous than the false pretenses on which Lenie Clarke had waged war. But she had shown them the way. She had proven it was possible. And with every drop of her blood that she spilled, every precious inoculation of Behemoth into the world, she had given them their weapons.</p>
			<p>Now there was nothing she could bring herself to say. She could only shake her head, and force herself to meet the eyes of this accuser and one-time friend.</p>
			<p>"And now they've really outdone themselves," Ouellette continued in her broken, empty voice. "Now, they've—"</p>
			<p>She took a breath.</p>
			<p>"Oh God," she finished. "I fucked up so bad."</p>
			<p>Like a marionette she pulled herself to her feet. Still the botfly didn't move.</p>
			<p>"It wasn't a counteragent," Ouellette said.</p>
			<p>This time, Lubin spared a glance. "What do you mean?"</p>
			<p>"I guess we're not dying fast enough. The witch was beating us but we were slowing it down at least, we lost four people for every one we saved but at least we were saving <i>some</i>. But the M&amp;M's don't get into paradise until we're all dead, so they came up with something better..."</p>
			<p>"And <i>they</i> are?" Lubin asked, turning back to the teleop.</p>
			<p>"Don't look at me," the machine said quietly. "I'm one of the good guys."</p>
			<p>Clarke recognized the voice in an instant.</p>
			<p>So did Lubin. "Desjardins."</p>
			<p>"Ken. Old buddy." The botfly bobbed a few centimeters in salute. "Glad you remember me."</p>
			<p><i>You're alive</i>, Clarke thought.<i>After Rio, after Sudbury going dark, after five years. You're alive. You're alive after all.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>My friend....</i>
			</p>
			<p>Ouellette watched the proceedings with numb amazement on her face. "You <i>know</i>—"</p>
			<p>"He—helped us out," Clarke told her. "A long time ago."</p>
			<p>"We thought you were dead," Lubin said.</p>
			<p>"Likewise. It's been pretty much seven seconds to sockeye ever since Rio, and the only times I had a chance to ping you you'd gone dark. I figured you'd been done in by some disgruntled faction who never made the cut. Still. Here you are."</p>
			<p><i>My friend</i>, Clarke thought again. He'd been that when even Ken Lubin had been trying to kill her. He'd risked his life for her before they'd even met. By that measure, although their paths had only crossed briefly, he was the best friend she'd ever had.</p>
			<p>She had grieved at word of his death; by rights, now, she should be overjoyed. But one word looped endlessly through her mind, subverting joy with apprehension.</p>
			<p><i>Spartacus</i>.</p>
			<p>"So," she said carefully. "You're still a lawbreaker?"</p>
			<p>"Fighting Entropy for the Greater Good," the botfly recited.</p>
			<p>"And that includes burning thousands of hectares down to the bedrock?" Lubin queried.</p>
			<p>The botfly descended to Lubin-eye level and stared lens to lens. "If killing ten saves a thousand it's a deal, Ken, and nobody knows that better than you.. Maybe you didn't hear what our lovely friend just told you, but there's a war on. The bad guys keep lobbing Seppuku into my court and I've been doing my damndest to keep it from getting a foothold. I've got barely any staff and the infrastructure's falling apart around my ears but I was managing, Ken, I really was. And then, as I understand it, you two walked into poor Taka's life and now at least three vectors have snuck past the barricades."</p>
			<p>Lubin turned to Ouellette. "Is this true?"</p>
			<p>She nodded. "I checked it myself, when he told me what to look for. It was subtle, but it was...right there. Chaperone proteins and alternative splicing, RNA interference. A bunch of second and third-order effects I never saw. They were all tangled up in the polyploid genes, and I just didn't look hard enough. It gets inside you. It kills Behemoth sure enough, but then it just keeps going and it—I didn't see it. I was so sure I knew what it was, and I just—fucked up." She stared at the ground, away from accusing eyes. "I fucked up <i>again</i>," she whispered.</p>
			<p>Lubin said nothing for a few seconds. Then, to the 'fly: "You understand that there are reasons for caution here."</p>
			<p>"You don't trust me." Desjardins sounded almost amused. "I'm not the one with the compulsive murder fetish, Ken. And I'm not the only one who shook off the Trip. Are you really in a position to throw stones?"</p>
			<p>Ouellette looked up, startled from her bout of self-loathing.</p>
			<p>"And whatever misgivings you have," the 'lawbreaker continued, "Give me credit for a little self-interest. I don't want Seppuku in my back yard any more than you do. I'm just as vulnerable as the rest of you."</p>
			<p>"How vulnerable is that?" Lubin wondered. "Taka?"</p>
			<p>"I don't know," Ouellette whispered. "I don't know anything..."</p>
			<p>"Guess."</p>
			<p>She closed her eyes. "It's a whole different bug than <i>Behemoth</i>, but it's designed—I <i>think</i> it's designed for the same niche. So being tweaked against Behemoth won't save you, but it might buy you some time."</p>
			<p>"How much?"</p>
			<p>"I can't even guess. But everyone <i>else</i>, you know—I'd guess, most anyone who hasn't got the retrofits...symptoms after three or four days, death within fourteen."</p>
			<p>"Dead slow," Lubin remarked. "Any decent necrotising strep would kill you in three hours."</p>
			<p>"Yes. Before you had a chance to spread it." Ouellette's voice was hollow. "They're smarter than that."</p>
			<p>"Mmm. Mortality rate?"</p>
			<p>The doctor shook her head. "It's <i>designed</i>, Ken. There's no natural immunity."</p>
			<p>The muscles tightened around Lubin's mouth.</p>
			<p>"It actually gets worse," Desjardins added. "I'm not the only watchdog on this beat. There are still a few others in N'Am, and a lot more overseas. And I've got to tell you, my limited-containment strategy is not all that popular. There are people who'd just as soon nuke the whole bloody seaboard just to be on the safe side."</p>
			<p>"Why don't they nuke whoever's launching Seppuku?" Lubin wondered.</p>
			<p>"Try getting a fix on half a dozen submerged platforms moving around the deep Atlantic at sixty knots. Truth be told, some thought it was <i>you</i> guys."</p>
			<p>"It's not."</p>
			<p>"Doesn't matter. People are itching to go nuclear on this. I've only been able to hold them off because I could keep Seppuku from spreading without resorting to fissiles. But now, r's and K's, you've handed the nuclear lobby everything they need. If I were you I'd start digging fallout shelters. Deep ones."</p>
			<p>"<i>No</i>." Clarke shook her head. "There were only, what, six people with wheels?"</p>
			<p>"Only three showed up," Ouellette said. "But they could be anywhere. They didn't leave me an itinerary. And they'll be <i>spreading</i> the stuff. They'll be seeding it in ponds and fields and—"</p>
			<p>"If we can catch up with them, we can backtrack," Lubin pointed out.</p>
			<p>"But we don't even know where they were headed! How can we—"</p>
			<p>"I don't know how." The botfly wiggled on its ground-effectors, a tiny flourish. "But you better get started. You have made one industrial-strength tar pit of a mess here, folks. And if you want to stand even a one-in-fifty chance of keeping this place from melting down to radioactive glass, you are damn well gonna help clean it up."</p>
			<p>There was a silence. Stubborn flames crackled and spat faintly in the distance.</p>
			<p>"<i>We're</i> going to help you," Lubin said at last.</p>
			<p>"Well, you can all do your bit, of course," Desjardins replied, "but it's your efforts in particular, Ken, that are gonna come in most handy right now."</p>
			<p>Lubin pursed his lips. "Thanks, but I'll pass. I wouldn't do you much good."</p>
			<p>Clarke bit her tongue. <i>He's got to be working some kind of angle.</i></p>
			<p>The botfly hovered for a moment, as if considering. "I haven't forgotten your skill set, Ken. I've experienced it first-hand."</p>
			<p>"I haven't forgotten yours either. You could mobilize the whole hemisphere in thirty seconds flat."</p>
			<p>"A lot's changed since you retired, friend. And in case you haven't noticed, there's not much left of the hemisphere even if I <i>did</i> still have all my super powers."</p>
			<p>Ouellette's eyes flickered between man and machine, watching the point-counterpoint with a mixture of outrage and confusion. But at least she, too, seemed to know enough to keep her mouth shut.</p>
			<p>Lubin glanced around at the charred and darkling landscape. "Your resources seem more than sufficient. You don't need me."</p>
			<p>"You're not listening, Ken. A <i>lot</i> has changed. A lifter or two is nothing, it's background noise. But you start mobilizing too many resources at once, the wrong kind of people pay attention. And not everybody on this side is <i>on</i> this side, if you know what I mean."</p>
			<p><i>He's talking about other lawbreakers</i>, Clarke realized <i>. Maybe it's Spartacus vs. the Trip. Or maybe</i> all <i>of them are off the leash by now.</i></p>
			<p>"You'd rather keep a low profile," Lubin surmised.</p>
			<p>"I've always preferred subtlety. And your rather blunt social skills notwithstanding, when it comes right down to it even <i>you're</i> more subtle than a fleet of fire-breathing killer blimps."</p>
			<p><i>When it comes down to war, he means. Private war of the psychos, by invitation only.</i> Clarke wondered how many sides there were. Could they even <i>have</i> sides? How do you form an alliance with someone you <i>know</i> will stab you in the back the first chance they get?<i>Maybe it's just every sociopath for himself</i>, she mused <i>.</i></p>
			<p>Then again, it wasn't Lubin who'd had difficulty choosing sides recently.</p>
			<p>"I'm otherwise engaged," Lubin said.</p>
			<p>"Naturally. You'd have to have a damn good reason to come all the way back here. The Mid Atlantic Ridge isn't exactly in the neighborhood."</p>
			<p>"It might be before too long, judging by the recent traffic."</p>
			<p>"Ah. Somebody pay you a visit?"</p>
			<p>"Not yet. But they're sniffing around close by. It's an unlikely coincidence."</p>
			<p>"Don't look at me, Ken. If I'd spilled the beans, they wouldn't have to <i>sniff around</i>."</p>
			<p>"I'm aware of that."</p>
			<p>"Still, you naturally want to know who's on the trail. Ken, I'm hurt. Why didn't you come to me at—oh, right. You thought I was dead." Desjardins paused, then added, "You're really lucky I came along."</p>
			<p>"I'm even luckier," Lubin said, "that you need my help."</p>
			<p>The botfly bobbled in a sudden gust of hot wind. "Okay then. You help me keep N'Am from dying a little while longer, and I'll try and find out who's stalking you. Deal?"</p>
			<p>Lubin considered.</p>
			<p>"Seems fair," he said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
