<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Bastille</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-28" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Bastille</h3>
			<p>Sudbury rose in the night like a luminous tumor.</p>
			<p>Its core glowed from within, faintly by dryback standards but bright as day to Lenie Clarke: a walled, claustrophobic cluster of refitted skyscrapers in an abandoned wasteland of suburbs and commercial zones. The static field was obvious by inference. The new buildings and the grafted retrofits, the galls of living space wedged into the gaps between buildings—all extended to the inner edge of the field and no further. Like metastasis constrained under glass, Sudbury had grown into a hemisphere.</p>
			<p>They cut through from the east. Clarke's diveskin squirmed in the field like a slug in a flame. Charged air transformed the rotors into whirling vortices of brilliant blue sparks. She found the effect oddly nostalgic; it seemed almost bioluminescent, like microbes fluorescing in the heat of a deep-sea vent. For a moment she could pretend that some airborne variant of Saint Elmo's Fire trailed from those spinning blades.</p>
			<p>But only for a moment. There was only one microorganism up here worth mentioning, and it was anything but luminous.</p>
			<p>Then they were through, sniffing westward through the upper reaches of the Sudbury core. City canyon walls loomed close on either side. Sheet lightning sparked and flickered along the strip of sky overhead. Far below, intermittently eclipsed by new construction, some vestigial rapitrans line ran along the canyon floor like a taut copper thread.</p>
			<p>She resumed loading clips from the open backpack at her feet. Lubin had toured her through the procedure somewhere over Georgian Bay. Each clip contained a dozen slug grenades, color-coded by function: flash, gas, shipworm, clusterfuck. They went into the belt-and-holster arrangement draped over her thigh.</p>
			<p>Lubin spared a prosthetic glance. "Don't forget to seal that pack when you're done. How's your tape?"</p>
			<p>She undid her top and checked the diveskin beneath. A broad X of semipermeable tape blocked off the electrolysis intake. "Still sticking." She zipped the dryback disguise back into place. "Doesn't this low-altitude stuff bother the local authorities?"</p>
			<p>"Not <i>those</i> authorities." His tone evoked the image of blind eyes, turning. Evidently derms and antidotes and gutted bodies bought more than mere transportation. Clarke didn't push the issue. She slid one last cartridge home and turned her attention forward.</p>
			<p>A couple of blocks ahead, the canyon ended in open space.</p>
			<p>"So that's where he is," she murmured. Lubin throttled back so that they were barely drifting forward.</p>
			<p>It spread out before their approach like a great dark coliseum, a clear zone carved from the claustrophobic architecture. Lubin brought the Sikorsky-Bell to a dead stop three hundred meters up, just short of that perimeter.</p>
			<p>It was a walled moat, two blocks on a side. A lone skyscraper—a fluted, multifaceted tower—rose from its center. A ghostly crown of blue lights glowed dimly from the roof; everything else was dead and dark, sixty-five floors with not so much as a pane alight. Patchwork foundations scarred the empty ground on all sides, the footprints of demolished buildings that had crowded the neighborhood back in happier times.</p>
			<p>She wondered what dryback eyes would see, if drybacks ever ventured here after dark. Maybe, when Sudbury's citizens looked to this place, they didn't see the Entropy Patrol at all. Maybe they saw a haunted tower, dark and ominous, full of skeletons and sick crawling things. Buried in the guts of the twenty-first century, besieged by alien microbes and ghosts in the machinery, could people be blamed for rediscovering a belief in evil spirits?</p>
			<p><i>Maybe they're not even wrong,</i> Clarke reflected.</p>
			<p>Lubin pointed to the spectral lights on the parapet. A landing pad rose from that nimbus, a dozen smaller structures holding court around it—freight elevators, ventilation shacks, the housings of retracted lifter umbilicals.</p>
			<p>Clarke looked back skeptically. "No." Surely they couldn't just <i>land</i> there. Surely there'd be defenses.</p>
			<p>Lubin was almost grinning. "Let's find out."</p>
			<p>"I'm not sure that's—"</p>
			<p>He hit the throttle. They leapt into empty, unprotected space.</p>
			<p>Out of the canyon, they banked right. Clarke braced her hands against the dash. Earth and sky rotated around them; suddenly the ground was three hundred meters off her shoulder, an archeological ruin of razed foundations—and two black circles, meters across, staring up at her like the eye sockets of some giant cartoon skull. Not empty, though. Not even flat: they bulged subtly from the ground, like the exposed polar regions of great buried spheres.</p>
			<p>"What're those?" she asked.</p>
			<p>No answer. Clarke glanced across the cockpit. Lubin was holding his binoculars one-handed between his knees, holding his pince-nez against their eyepieces. The apparatus stared down through the ventral canopy. Clarke shuddered inwardly: how to deal with the sense of one's eyes floating half a meter outside the skull?</p>
			<p>"I said—" she began again.</p>
			<p>"Superheating artefact. Soil grains explode like popcorn."</p>
			<p>"What would do that? Land mine?"</p>
			<p>He shook his head absently, his attention caught by something near the base of the building. "Particle beam. Orbital cannon."</p>
			<p>Her gut clenched. "If he's got—Ken, what if he <i>sees</i>—"</p>
			<p>Something flashed, sodium-bright, through the back of her skull. Clockwork stuttered briefly in her chest. The Sikorsky-Bell's controls hiccoughed once, in impossible unison, and went dark.</p>
			<p>"I think he has," Lubin remarked as the engine died.</p>
			<p>Wind whistled faintly through the fuselage. The rotor continued to <i>whup-whup-whup</i> overhead, its unpowered blades slapping the air through sheer inertia. There was no other sound but Lubin, cursing under his breath as they hung for an instant between earth and sky.</p>
			<p>In the next they were falling.</p>
			<p>Clarke's stomach rose into her throat. Lubin's feet slammed pedals. "Tell me when we pass sixty meters."</p>
			<p>They arced past dark facades. "Wha—"</p>
			<p>"I'm <i>blind</i>." Lubin's teeth were bared in some twisted mix of fear and exultation; his hands gripped the joystick with relentless futility. "Tell me when—the tenth floor! <i>Tell me when we pass the tenth floor!</i>"</p>
			<p>Part of her gibbered, senseless and panic-stricken. The rest struggled to obey, tried desperately to count the floors as they streaked past but they were too close, everything was a blur and they were going to crash they were going to crash right into the side of the tower but suddenly it was gone, swept past stage left, its edge passing almost close enough to touch. Now the structure's north face coasted into view, the focus sharper with distance and—</p>
			<p><i>Oh God what</i> is <i>that—</i></p>
			<p>Some unaffordable, awestruck piece of her brain murmered <i>it can't be</i> but it was, black and toothless and wide enough to swallow legions: a gaping <i>mouth</i> in the building's side. She tried to ignore it as they fell past, forced herself to focus on the floors beneath, count from the ground up. They were diving straight past that impossible maw—they were diving <i>into</i> it—</p>
			<p>"<i>Le—</i>"</p>
			<p>"<i>Now!</i>" she yelled.</p>
			<p>For a second that went on forever, Lubin did nothing at all.</p>
			<p>The strangest sensations, in that elastic moment. The sound of the rotor, still impossibly awhirl through luck or magic or sheer stubborn denial, its machine-gun rhythm dopplered down like the slow, distant heartbeat of a receding astronaut. The sight of the ground racing up to spike them into oblivion. Sudden calm resignation, a recognition of the inevitable: <i>we're going to die.</i> And a nod, sadly amused, to the irony that the mighty Ken Lubin, who always thought ten steps ahead, could have made such a stupid fucking mistake.</p>
			<p>But then he yanked on the stick and the chopper reared back, losing its nerve at the last moment. Suddenly she weighed a hundred tonnes. They faced the sky; the world skidded around them, earth and glass and far-off cloud rolling past the windshield in a blurry jumble. For one astonishing moment they <i>hovered</i>. Then something kicked them hard from behind: from behind, the sound of cracking polymers and tearing metal. They lurched sideways and that magical rotor slashed the earth and stopped dead, defeated at last. Lenie Clarke stared up mad-eyed at a great monolith leaning crazily against the night sky, descending along with the darkness to devour her.</p>
			<p>"Lenie."</p>
			<p>She opened her eyes. That impossible mouth still yawned overhead. She squeezed her eyes shut, held them closed for a second. Tried again.</p>
			<p><i>Oh</i>.</p>
			<p>Not a mouth after all. A great charred hole, partway up the north façade, stretching across ten gutted floors or more.</p>
			<p><i>Rio</i>, she realized. <i>They never repaired the damage</i>.</p>
			<p>The roof of the building was clearly visible, straight ahead through the forward windshield. The lights up there had gone out. The whole building seemed to lean to the left; the chopper's nose was twisted up at a thirty-degree angle, like some mechanical mole that had breached from the earth and torqued on its axis.</p>
			<p>Their ride was sockeye. The tail boom must have either crumpled at their backs or snapped off entirely.</p>
			<p>Pain in her chest and arms. There was something wrong with the sky. It was—that was it, it was <i>dark</i>. They were in a clave, where static-field generators hummed endless electricity into the air. Sudbury's sky should have been flickering. Before they'd fallen, it had been.</p>
			<p>"<i>Lenie</i>."</p>
			<p>"Was that—was that a pulse?" she wondered.</p>
			<p>"Can you move?"</p>
			<p>She focused, and located the source of the pain: Lubin's backpack, hard and lumpy, clutched tightly as life itself against her chest. It must have risen from the floor during the dive, she must have grabbed it in midair. She remembered none of it. The slit along its top puckered like a mouth in her embrace, affording glimpses of the stuff inside—an angular jumble of tools and ordnance pressing painfully into her flesh.</p>
			<p>She willed her grip to relax. The pain subsided.</p>
			<p>"I think I'm okay. Are you—"</p>
			<p>He looked blindly back at her through sandblasted eyes.</p>
			<p>An image from the fall came to her, unregistered until now: Lubin's pince-nez, sailing gracefully towards the back of the cabin. Clarke unbuckled and twisted to look behind her. Sudden sharp pain splintered down her spine like cracking ice. She cried out.</p>
			<p>Lubin's hand was on her shoulder. "What?"</p>
			<p>"Wh—whiplash, I think. I've had worse." She settled back in her seat. No point in looking for the pince-nez anyway; the pulse would have fried them as thoroughly as it had the chopper.</p>
			<p>"You're blind again," she said softly.</p>
			<p>"I packed another pair. The knapsack's shielded."</p>
			<p>Its open mouth grinned at her, zipper-toothed. Realization crashed over her in a sickening wave. "Oh, <i>fuck</i>, Ken, I <i>—</i> I forgot to zip it up. I'm—"</p>
			<p>He waved away her apology. "You'll be my eyes. Is the cabin breached?"</p>
			<p>"What?"</p>
			<p>"Any breaks in the fuselage? Anything big enough for you to crawl through, say?"</p>
			<p>"Uh—" Clarke turned again, carefully. Pain feinted to the base of her skull, but stopped short of outright attack. "No. The rear bulkhead's crumpled to shit, but..."</p>
			<p>"Good. Do you still have the pack?"</p>
			<p>She opened her mouth to answer—and remembered two carbonised mounds staring into the sky.</p>
			<p>"<i>Focus</i>, Len. Do you—"</p>
			<p>"It doesn't matter, Ken."</p>
			<p>"It matters a great—"</p>
			<p>"We're <i>dead</i>, Ken." She took a deep, despairing breath. "He's got an orbital cannon, remember? Any second now he'll just—and there's not a fucking thing we can—"</p>
			<p>"<i>Listen to me</i>." Suddenly, Lubin was close enough to kiss. "If he was trying to kill us we'd be dead already, do you understand? I'd doubt he's even willing to bring his satellites online at this point; he doesn't want to risk losing them to the shredders."</p>
			<p>"But he <i>already</i>—the pulse—"</p>
			<p>"Didn't come from orbit. He must have packed half the floors in that building with capacitors. <i>He's not trying to kill us.</i> He's only trying to soften us up." He thrust out his hand. "Now <i>where's the pack</i>?"</p>
			<p>She handed it over, numbly. Lubin set it on his knee and rummaged inside.</p>
			<p><i>He's not trying to kill us</i>. Lubin had made that claim before, laid it out as part of his working hypothesis en route from Toromilton. Clarke wasn't entirely sure that recent events bore him out, especially since—</p>
			<p>A flicker of motion, just to the right. Clarke turned and gasped, the pain of that motion forgotten in an instant. A monstrous face stared back through the bubble of the canopy, centimeters away, a massive black wedge of muscle and bone. Small dark eyes glinted from deep sockets. The apparition <i>grinned</i>, showing sawtooth serrations embedded in jaws like a leghold trap.</p>
			<p>In the next moment it had dropped out of sight.</p>
			<p>"What?" Lubin's face panned back and forth. "What do you see?"</p>
			<p>"I—I think it used to be a dog," Clarke said, her voice quavering.</p>
			<p>"I think they all did," Lubin told her.</p>
			<p>Tilted at the sky, she hadn't seen them arrive; she had to look <i>down</i> to see <i>forward</i>, and now—through the ventral bubble between her knees, over the edge of the door if she strained from her seat—the darkness seethed on all sides. The apparitions did not bark or growl. They made no sound at all. They didn't waste energy on brute animal rage, didn't throw themselves slavering against the hull to get at the soft meat inside. They circled like silent sharks.</p>
			<p>Boosted light stripped nothing from these creatures. They were utterly black.</p>
			<p>"How many?" Lubin ran one hand across his grenade pistol; the ammo belt lay across his knees, one end still trailing down into the knapsack between his feet.</p>
			<p>"Twenty. Thirty. At least. Oh Jesus, Ken, they're <i>huge</i>, they're twice as big as you are..." Clarke fought rising panic.</p>
			<p>Lubin's pistol came with three cartridge slots and a little thumbwheel to choose between them. He felt out flash, shipworm, and clusterfuck from the belt and slotted them in. "Can you see the main entrance?"</p>
			<p>"Yes."</p>
			<p>"What direction? How far?"</p>
			<p>"About eleven o'clock. Maybe—maybe eighty meters." <i>Might as well be eighty lightyears</i>.</p>
			<p>"What's between there and here?"</p>
			<p>She swallowed. "A pack of rabid monster dogs waiting to kill us."</p>
			<p>"Besides that."</p>
			<p>"We're—we're on the edge of the main drag. Paved. Old foundations either side, pretty much razed and filled." And then, hoping he wasn't heading where she feared—hoping she could deflect him if he was—she added, "No cover."</p>
			<p>"Can you see my binocs?"</p>
			<p>She turned carefully, torsion and injury in uneasy balance. "Right behind you. The strap's caught up in the cleat over the door."</p>
			<p>He abandoned his weapon long enough to disentangle the binoculars and hand them over. "Describe the entrance."</p>
			<p>Range-finding and thermal were dead, of course. Only the raw optics still worked. Clarke tried to ignore the dark shapes in the blurry foreground. "Bank of glass doors, eight of them. They're set into this shallow indentation in the façade, CSIRA logo on top. Ken—"</p>
			<p>"What's behind the doors?"</p>
			<p>"Uh, a vestibule, a few meters deep. And then—oh, last time there was another set of doors further in, but those're gone now. There's some kind of heavy slab instead, like a big dropgate or something. Looks pretty featureless."</p>
			<p>"What about the side walls of the vestibule?"</p>
			<p>"Concrete or biolite or something. Just walls. Nothing special. Why?"</p>
			<p>He tightened the ammo belt around his waist. "That's where we go in."</p>
			<p>She shook her head. "<i>No</i>, Ken. No fucking way."</p>
			<p>"Dropgate's the obvious defense. More sensible to go around than hit it head-on."</p>
			<p>"We can't go out there. They'll tear us apart."</p>
			<p>"I didn't come all this way to let a pack of dogs pin me down eighty meters from the finish line."</p>
			<p>"Ken, you're <i>blind</i>!"</p>
			<p>"They won't know that." He held up his pistol. "And they'll know what this is. Appearances matter."</p>
			<p>She stared at his corroded eyes, the oozing flesh of his face. "How're you going to <i>aim</i>?"</p>
			<p>"The same way we landed. You'll give me bearings." Lubin felt around in the pack and pulled out the Heckler &amp; Koch. "Take this."</p>
			<p>She did, unbelieving.</p>
			<p>"We keep the dogs back long enough to get in through the wall. The rest of the plan doesn't change."</p>
			<p>Dry-mouthed, Clarke watched them circling. "What if they're armored? What if they're wired?"</p>
			<p>"They'll be pulse-proof. No electronics. The usual tweaks and nothing more." He zipped up the knapsack and slung it across his back, tightening the straps around shoulders and waist.</p>
			<p>"Are these <i>guns</i> pulse-proof? Are—" A sudden, disquieting memory rose to the surface of her thoughts: machinery in her chest, hiccoughing. "What about our implants?"</p>
			<p>"Myoelectric. EMP doesn't bother them, much. What's the H&amp;K set on?"</p>
			<p>She checked. "Conotoxins. Ken, I've never even fired a gun before. My aim—"</p>
			<p>"Will be better than mine." Lubin clambered back down into the tilted cabin behind their seats. "You may get off easily. I rather suspect they'll be focusing on me."</p>
			<p>"But—"</p>
			<p>"Gloves," he said, sealing his to the gauntlets beneath his clothing.</p>
			<p>Clarke pulled her gloves over shaking hands. "Ken, we can't just—"</p>
			<p>He paused, fixed her with his sightless eyes. "You know, I liked you better when you were suicidal. You weren't nearly so chickenshit."</p>
			<p>She blinked. "What?"</p>
			<p>"I'm losing patience, Len. Five years of guilt-ridden self-pity should be enough for anyone. Was I wrong about you? Were you just wallowing, all this time? <i>Do you want to save the world or not?</i>"</p>
			<p>"I—"</p>
			<p>"This is the only way."</p>
			<p><i>Is there anything you</i> wouldn't <i>do, then? For the chance to take it all back?</i> Back then the answer had been obvious. It was obvious now. Freezing, familiar determination reignited inside her. Her face burned.</p>
			<p>Lubin nodded, only his eyes blinded. He sat on the floor, braced his back against the bulkhead behind Clarke's seat. "Noseplugs."</p>
			<p>They'd improvised them en route, little wads of the same semipermeable tape that blocked her intake. Clarke stuffed one up each nostril.</p>
			<p>"I blow a hole in the hull," Lubin said, inserting his own. "That drives the dogs back long enough for us to exit the chopper. Once we're outside, point me at the main entrance. That's twelve o'clock. All target bearings will be relative to that, <i>not</i> to where I happen to be facing at any given time. Do you understand?"</p>
			<p>She nodded, forgetting for an instant, then: "Yes."</p>
			<p>"They'll charge as soon as we're in the open. Call it. Close your eyes when I give the word. I'll be using the flash grenades; they'll be incapacitated for at least ten seconds. Shoot as many as you can. Keep moving."</p>
			<p>"Got it. Anything else?"</p>
			<p>"Lose the gloves once we're free of the heat. The sight of a diveskin might start him thinking."</p>
			<p>Patient killers paced just past the canopy. They seemed to look her in the eye. They smiled, showing teeth the size of thumbs.</p>
			<p><i>Just the usual tweaks</i>, she thought, giddy and terrified. She braced her back against the canopy, raising her gloved hands to protect her face.</p>
			<p>"We can do this," Lubin said softly. "Just remember what I told you."</p>
			<p><i>He's not trying to kill us</i>. She wondered just who that applied to.</p>
			<p>"You really think he expects us to survive."</p>
			<p>Lubin nodded.</p>
			<p>"But does he know you're <i>blind</i>?"</p>
			<p>"I doubt it." He pointed his gun across the cabin. The thumbwheel locked onto <i>clusterfuck</i>. "Ready?"</p>
			<p>
				<i>This is it, Lenie girl. Your one shot at redemption.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>Don't fuck it up.</i>
			</p>
			<p>"Go," she said, and shut her eyes.</p>
			<p>Lubin fired. Clarke's lids glowed sudden, bloody orange.</p>
			<p>Her diveskin took most of the heat from the neck down, but in that moment it was as if someone had thrust her head into a kiln. She swore the heat blasted the very skin from her face. She clenched her teeth and held her breath and cursed the chances Lubin wouldn't take: <i>it might tip him off if he sees our hoods</i>.</p>
			<p>The air roared and crackled, sizzled with spatterings of liquid metal. She could hear the crack of Lubin's pistol firing again at her side. She realised, distantly amazed, that the pain was gone. Fear and adrenaline had swept it away in an instant.</p>
			<p>The world dimmed beyond her eyelids. She opened them. A hole gaped in the side of the chopper. Soft alloy glowed intermittently at its edges; acrylic peeled and blackened. Chunks of shredded canopy guttered on the floor, one scant centimeters from her left foot.</p>
			<p>Lubin fired a third time. A spread of incendiary needles shot through the breach and into the darkness beyond, a tiny, devastating meteor shower. Clusterfucks were designed to sow a thousand lethal pinholes across a wide area, but there'd been little chance to disperse across the meager width of the cabin. Almost two meters of solid fuselage had been reduced to silvery chaff and blown outward; a fan of dispersed wreckage steamed and congealed on the ground outside.</p>
			<p>"How big is the hole?" Lubin snapped over ambience.</p>
			<p>"Meter and a half." She choked and coughed on the stink of scorched plastic. "Lots of little bits past—"</p>
			<p>Too late. Lubin, blindly brazen, had already launched himself through the hole. He sailed over the scree nearest the threshold and hit the ground shoulder-first, rolling to his feet in an instant. A lozenge of hot metal smoldered like a branding iron against his left shoulder blade. Lubin writhed, reached around and pushed it loose with the muzzle of his gun. It dropped to the ground, tarry with half-melted copolymer. A ragged hole smoked on Lubin's shirt. The injured diveskin beneath squirmed as if alive.</p>
			<p>Clarke gritted her teeth and dove after him.</p>
			<p>A bright spark of pain, needle-sharp and needle-fine, ignited briefly on her forearm as she sailed through the breach. In the next instant blesséd cool air washed over her. She landed hard and skidded. Two great carcasses twitched and burned before her, grinning behind charred lips.</p>
			<p>She scrambled to her feet, peeling off her gloves. Sure enough, the rest of the pack had retreated for the moment, holding the perimeter at a more discreet distance.</p>
			<p>Lubin swept his weapon back and forth, pure threat display. "<i>Lenie</i>!"</p>
			<p>"Here! Two down!" She reached his side, pointing her H&amp;K at the circling horde. "The others backed off." She turned him clockwise. "Entrance that way. Twelve o'clock." <i>Remember</i>, she told herself. <i>Bearings from the entrance, bearings from the—</i></p>
			<p>He nodded. "How far are the dogs?" He held his pistol two-handed, arms extended, elbows slightly bent. He looked almost relaxed.</p>
			<p>"Uh—twenty-five meters, maybe." <i>Bearings from the entrance...</i></p>
			<p>"Smart. Just past effective range."</p>
			<p><i>Bearings from—</i>"<i>Your range is twenty-five lousy meters</i>?"</p>
			<p>"Wide spread." It made sense, of course—a useful cheat for a poor marksman, and blind was as poor as it got. The catch was a needle-cloud so widely dispersed that distant targets passed through it untouched. "Try yours."</p>
			<p>Clarke aimed. Her hands wouldn't stop shaking. She fired once, twice. The H&amp;K bucked in her grip. Its bark was surprisingly soft.</p>
			<p>The enemy stared back, undiminished.</p>
			<p>"Missed. Unless they're immune, Ken, you said they were <i>tweaked</i>—"</p>
			<p>Sudden motion to the right, a rush along the flank. "<i>Two o'clock,</i>" Clarke hissed, firing. Lubin turned and shot a firestorm of needles. "<i>Eight!</i>" He swung and fired again, barely missing Clarke as she ducked beneath his outstretched arms.</p>
			<p>Splinters of fire laced the ground to both sides. Three more dogs were down, lacerated by flaming shrapnel. Two more, fitfully ignited, fled back out of range. Still the pack was mute. The perimeter boiled with silent anger.</p>
			<p>She kept her own weapon up, for all the good it would do. "Three down, two injured. The rest of them are holding back."</p>
			<p>Lubin panned left, right. "This is wrong. They should be charging."</p>
			<p>"They don't want to get shot. You said they were smart."</p>
			<p>"Attack dogs too smart to attack." Lubin shook his head. "No. This is wrong."</p>
			<p>"Maybe they just want to keep us pinned here," Clarke said hopefully. "Maybe—"</p>
			<p>Something rang faintly in her skull, not so much heard as felt: an <i>itch</i>, shrill and irritating.</p>
			<p>"Ah," Lubin said softly. "That's more like it."</p>
			<p>The change was too subtle for sight and too fundamental. No motion sensor, no image-analysis subroutine would have been able to read the signs. But Lenie Clarke knew it instantly, on some primal level that predated Humanity itself. Something in the gut had never forgotten, in all these million years. On all sides, many creatures merged suddenly together into one, into a vast seething entity with myriad bodies and a single merciless focus. Lenie Clarke watched it leap towards her and remembered exactly what she was, what she always <i>had</i> been.</p>
			<p>Prey.</p>
			<p>"<i>Flash!</i>" Lubin barked. Almost too late, she remembered to shut her eyes. Four pops sounded in rapid succession. A constellation of dim red suns ignited briefly through her eyelids.</p>
			<p>"<i>Go!</i>"</p>
			<p>She looked. The composite organism had shattered, just like that. Solitary predators wheeled on all sides, blinded and confused. <i>Briefly</i> blind, she remembered. <i>Briefly</i> confused.</p>
			<p>She had seconds to act and nothing to lose. She charged.</p>
			<p>Three meters from the nearest beast she started shooting. She squeezed off five rounds; two hits in the creature's flank. It snapped and dropped. Two others stumbled into each other, a mere arm's length away: one shot each and she was spinning in search of new targets. Somewhere offside, needlefire slammed obliquely across the ground. She ignored it and kept shooting. Something dark and massive hurtled past, bleeding flame. She nailed it in the flank for good measure and suddenly she was transformed yet again, all that adrenalized midbrain circuitry flipping from <i>flight</i> to <i>fight</i>, whimpering paralysis burned away in a fury of bloodlust and adrenaline. She shot a leg. She shot a great heaving ribcage, black and sleek as a diveskin. She shot a monstrous, silently-snarling face, and realized it had been looking <i>back</i>.</p>
			<p>A part of her she hadn't even known was keeping score served up a number: <i>seven.</i> <i>That's the number you can take, before they come for you...</i></p>
			<p>She broke and ran. Lubin was running too, poor blind Lubin, Lubin the human tank. He'd switched back to clusterfuck and cleared a fiery path down twelve o'clock. He charged down the driveway—</p>
			<p>—<i>I told him no obstructions oh boy will he be pissed if he trips on a sewer grating—</i></p>
			<p>—like a sighted man. Dogs shook their heads in his wake and wheeled, intent on reacquisition.</p>
			<p>They were closing on Clarke, too. Their paws drummed at her heels like heavy rain on a cloth roof.</p>
			<p>She was back on the asphalt, a few meters off Lubin's stern. "<i>Seven o'clock!</i>" she cried, diving.</p>
			<p>Incandescent sleet streaked centimeters overhead. Gravel and coarse pavement flayed the skin of her palms, bruised her arm and shoulder through nested layers of denim and copolymer. Flesh and fur burst into flame close enough to warm her face.</p>
			<p>She twisted onto her back. "Three o'clock! <i>Flash wore off!</i>" Lubin turned and sprayed fire across the bearing. Three other dogs were closing from eleven; still on her back, Clarke held the gun two-handed over her head and took them out with three meters to spare.</p>
			<p>"Flash!" Lubin shouted again. Clarke rolled and ducked, closing her eyes. Three more pops, three more orange fleshy sunrises. They backlit the memory of that last sighted instant—the instant when Lubin called out and every dog had flinched and <i>turned their heads away</i>...</p>
			<p><i>Smart, smart doggies</i>, giggled some hysterical little girl in her head. <i>They heard FLASH</i>, <i>and they remembered it from the first time, and they</i> closed their eyes...</p>
			<p>She opened hers, terrified of what she was about to see.</p>
			<p>The trick hadn't worked twice. Lubin was bringing up his weapon, desperately switching modes as some black slavering nemesis launched itself at his throat. There were no stars in its eyes. Lubin fired, blind and point-blank; blood and bone exploded from the back of the creature's skull but the carcass just kept going, a hundred kilograms of gory unstoppable momentum hitting him full in the chest. Lubin went over like a paper doll, gripping his dead attacker as though he could prevail over <i>mass-times-accelleration</i> through sheer bloody-minded determination.</p>
			<p>He couldn't, of course. He couldn't prevail over anything. He had only killed one of them. He disappeared beneath a dozen others.</p>
			<p>Suddenly Clarke was charging forward, firing and firing and firing. There were screams, but none of them came from anything she might have hit. Something hot and hard slammed into her from the side; something cold and harder slammed against her back. A monster grinned down at her, open-mouthed, drooling. Its forepaws pinned her to the ground like piled cinderblocks. Its breath reeked of meat and petroleum.</p>
			<p>She remembered something Ken had said: <i>You may get off easily. I rather suspect they'll be focusing on me.</i> She really should have asked him about that, back when she'd had the chance. Only now it was too late.</p>
			<p><i>They're saving me</i>, she thought distantly. <i>For dessert...</i></p>
			<p>From somewhere nearby, the sound of crunching bones.</p>
			<p>#</p>
			<p><i>Jesus God, Ken. What did you</i> think <i>would happen?</i></p>
			<p>The weight on her chest was gone. On all sides she could hear the sound of monsters, breathing.</p>
			<p><i>You thought we had a hope in hell? You were</i> blind <i>, and I—I might as well have been. Were you trying to die, Ken? Did you just think you were indestructible?</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>I could understand that, maybe. I almost believed it myself, for a while.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Strangely, nothing had torn out her throat. <i>I wonder what's keeping them</i>, she thought.</p>
			<p>She opened her eyes. CSIRA loomed into the sky over her head, as though she were staring up from the grave at some colossal tombstone.</p>
			<p>She sat up in a circle maybe four meters across. Massed black bodies circumscribed its edge. They watched her, panting with past exertion, sitting calmly on their haunches.</p>
			<p>Clarke struggled to her feet. Her head itched with the memory of that irritating inaudible tickle, freshly resurgent against her inner ear. She'd felt it when the monsters had first charged. She'd felt it again, just now. <i>Ultrasonics</i>, she realised.</p>
			<p>The Hechler &amp; Koch lay at her feet. She bent to scoop it up. Dark shapes tensed on all sides; jaws snapped, restive. But they didn't stop her.</p>
			<p>The Sikorsky-Bell lay broken-backed fifty meters to her left, fat thorax and slender abdomen rising in a lopsided V from their common juncture. A ragged, charred hole gaped darkly in the cabin wall, as though some white-hot parasite had burst forth from inside. She took one shaky step in that direction.</p>
			<p>The dogs bristled and held their ground.</p>
			<p>She stopped. Turned to face the black tower.</p>
			<p>The pack parted before her.</p>
			<p>They moved as she did, yielding in some approved direction, closing behind in her wake. After a few steps her own shifting bubble of space fused with another; two pockets merged into a single oblong vacuole ten meters down the major axis.</p>
			<p>Two great torn carcasses lay piled before her in a pool of blood and spilled intestine. A foot protruded unmoving from beneath the nearest. Something else--dark, slick, strangely lobate—twitched further along one bloody flank as Clarke approached. It looked like some grotesque swollen parasite, pulsing weakly, spilled from the guts of its disembowelled host.</p>
			<p>It <i>clenched</i>. Suddenly the image clicked: a blood-soaked fist, knotted in gory, matted fur.</p>
			<p>"Ken!" She reached down, touched the bloody hand. It jerked back as if stabbed, disappeared beneath the carcass leaving only the vague sense of some half-glimpsed deformity. The mass of carrion shifted slightly.</p>
			<p>Lubin hadn't torn these two animals apart. He'd merely blown lethal holes in them. Their evisceration had happened after the fact, a demon horde ripping through their fallen comrades in pragmatic, remorseless pursuit of their target.</p>
			<p>Lubin had used these two as a <i>shield</i>.</p>
			<p>"Ken, it's me." She grabbed handfuls of fur and pulled. The blood-slicked pelage resisted her grip. Splinters of bone stabbed her hands through clots of muscle and fur. On the third try, the center of mass tipped past some crucial threshold. The carcass rolled off Lubin like a great log.</p>
			<p>He fired, blind. Lethal shards sprayed into the sky. Clarke dropped to the ground—"<i>It's me, you idiot!</i>"—and stared panic-stricken around the perimeter, terrified that Lubin had jump-started a whole new assault. But the pack only flinched and fell back a few steps, silent as ever.</p>
			<p>"Cl—Clarke....?"</p>
			<p>He didn't even look human. Every square centimeter glistened with black gore. The pistol shook in his hand.</p>
			<p>"It's me," she repeated. She had no idea how much of the blood was his. "Are you—"</p>
			<p>"—dogs?" His breath hissed fast and panicky through clenched teeth, the breath of a terrified little boy.</p>
			<p>She looked at her escort. They looked back.</p>
			<p>"Holding back, for now. Someone called them off."</p>
			<p>His hand steadied. His breathing slowed. Discipline reimposed itself from the top down, the old familiar Lubin rebooting himself through sheer force of will.</p>
			<p>"Told you," he coughed.</p>
			<p>"Are you—"</p>
			<p>"Functional..." He got slowly to his feet, tensing and grimacing a half-dozen times. "—barely." His right thigh had been gored. A gash split the side of his face, running from jaw to hairline. It tore straight through the shattered socket of his right eye.</p>
			<p>Clarke gasped. "Jesus, your <i>eye</i>"</p>
			<p>He reached up to touch his face. "Wasn't doing me much good anyway." The deformity of his hand, barely glimpsed before, was obvious now: two of the fingers were gone.</p>
			<p>"And your hand—Ken, it—"</p>
			<p>He flexed the remaining digits. Fresh membranous scabs tore open at the stumps; dark fluids seeped forth. "Not as bad as it looks," he said hoarsely.</p>
			<p>"You'll bleed out, you'll—"</p>
			<p>He shook his head, staggered slightly. "Enhanced clotting factors. Standard issue. I'm good to go."</p>
			<p><i>The hell you are.</i> But dogs crowded close on one side, fell back on the other. Staying put obviously wasn't an option either.</p>
			<p>"Okay then." She took him by the elbow. "This way."</p>
			<p>"We're not deviating." It wasn't a question.</p>
			<p>"No. We don't have much choice."</p>
			<p>He coughed again. Clotting fluid bubbled at the corner of his mouth. "They're herding us."</p>
			<p>A great dark muzzle pushed her gently from behind.</p>
			<p>"Think of it as an honor guard," she said.</p>
			<p>A row of glass doors beneath a concrete awning, the official logo of the Entropy Patrol set into stone overhead. The dogs formed a semicircle around the entrance, pushing them forward.</p>
			<p>"What do you see?" Lubin asked.</p>
			<p>"Same outer doors. Vestibule behind, three meters deep. There's—there's a door in the center of the barrier. Just an outline, no knob or keypad or anything."</p>
			<p>She could have sworn that hadn't been there before.</p>
			<p>Lubin spat blood. "Let's go."</p>
			<p>She tried one of the doors. It swung open. They stepped across the threshold.</p>
			<p>"We're in the vestibule."</p>
			<p>"Dogs?"</p>
			<p>"Still outside." The pack was lined up against the glass now, staring in. "I guess they're not—oh. The inner door just opened."</p>
			<p>"In or out?"</p>
			<p>"Inwards. Dark inside. Can't see anything." She stepped forward; her eyecaps would adjust to that deeper darkness once they were in it.</p>
			<p><i>If</i> they got in it. Lubin had frozen at her side, the remaining fingers on his mauled hand clenched into an impoverished fist. The grenade pistol extended from his other hand, unwavering, pointing straight ahead. His ravaged face held an expression Clarke had never seen before, some smoldering picture of rage and humiliation that bordered on outright humanity.</p>
			<p>"Ken. Door's open."</p>
			<p>The thumbwheel clicked onto <i>shipworm</i>.</p>
			<p>"It's open, Ken. We can walk right in." She touched his forearm, tried to bring it down but his whole body was gripped in a sudden furious tetanus. "We don't have to—"</p>
			<p>"I told you before," he growled. "More sensible to go around." His gun arm swung to three o'clock, pointing straight at the vestibule wall. His useless eye stared straight ahead.</p>
			<p>"Ken <i>—</i>" She turned, half-expecting the monsters at their backs to crash through the panes and rip his arm off. But the dogs stayed where they were, seemingly content to let the drama play out without further intervention.</p>
			<p>"He <i>wants</i> us to go forward," Lubin said. "Always sets it up, always takes the initiative. All we ever do is fucking— <i>react</i>..."</p>
			<p>"And blowing out a wall when the door's standing open? That's not a <i>reaction</i>?"</p>
			<p>Lubin shook his head. "It's an escape route."</p>
			<p>He fired. The shipworm plunged into the side wall, spinning fast enough to shatter an event horizon. The wall erupted like a tabletop Vesuvius; filthy grey cumulus billowed out and engulfed them in an instant. Stinging particles sandblasted Clarke's face. She closed her eyes, choked on the sudden sandstorm. From somewhere deep in the maelstrom, she heard the tinkle of shattering glass.</p>
			<p>Something grabbed her wrist and yanked sideways. She opened her eyes onto the swirling, soupy aftermath of the blast. Lubin drew her towards the ruptured wall; his ravaged face loomed close. "This way. Get us in."</p>
			<p>She steered. He lurched at her side. The air was filled with the hiss of fine sifting debris, the building sighed at its own desecration. An empty, twisted door frame leaned crazily out of the murk. Pebbles of crumbled safety glass crunched beneath their feet like a diamond snowfall.</p>
			<p>There was no sign of the dogs, not that she'd be able to see them anyway unless they were on her. Maybe the explosion had scared them back. Maybe they'd been trained to stay outside no matter what. Or maybe, any second now, they'd find this broken doorway and pour through to finish the job...</p>
			<p>A ragged hole resolved in the wall before them. Water ran from somewhere beyond. A ridge of torn concrete and rebar rose maybe five centimeters from the floor, the lip of a precipice; on the other side there <i>was</i> no floor, just a ruptured shaft a meter across, extending into darkness both above and below. Twisted veins of metal and plastic hung from precarious holdfasts, or lay wedged across the shaft at unforeseen angles. A stream of water plummeted through empty space, spilling from some ruptured pipe above, splattering against some unseen grate below.</p>
			<p>The wall across the gap had been breached. There was darkness beyond.</p>
			<p>"Watch this step," she said.</p>
			<p>They emerged into a dark, high-ceilinged space that Clarke half-remembered as the main reception area. Lubin turned and aimed back at the hole through which they'd come. Nothing jumped out at them. Nothing followed.</p>
			<p>"Lobby," Clarke reported. "Dark. Reception pedestals and kiosks over to the left. Nobody here."</p>
			<p>"Dogs?"</p>
			<p>"Not yet."</p>
			<p>Lubin's working fingers played along the edges of the breach. "What's this?"</p>
			<p>She leaned closer. In the boosted half-light, something glimmered from the torn cross-section like a thin vein of precious ore. Frayed bits protruded here and there from the shattered substrate.</p>
			<p>"Mesh of some kind," she told him. "Embedded in the wall. Metallic, very fine weave. Like thick cloth."</p>
			<p>He nodded grimly. "Faraday cage."</p>
			<p>"What?"</p>
			<p>"Shielding. From the effects of the pulse."</p>
			<p>Like a handclap from God, the lights came on.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
