<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Tag</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-1" id="chapter-1-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Tag</h3>
			<p>There's nobody out there.</p>
			<p>They've left evidence behind—a couple of point-welders still squatting against the hull on tripod legs, the limpet transceiver stuck to the alloy a few meters away—but of Nolan and any other perpetrators, there's no sign. Clarke smiles grimly to herself.</p>
			<p><i>Let them run</i>.</p>
			<p>But she can't find anyone else, either. None of Lubin's sentries at their assigned posts. Nobody monitoring the surveillance limpets festooning Atlantis in the wake of the Corpses' exercise in channel-switching. She flies over the very medlab on which, she's been assured, any number of rifter troops are fine-tuning the would-be hostage-takers lurking within. Nothing. Gantries and habslabs and shadows. Blinking lights in some places, recent darkness in others where the beacons or the portholes have been smashed or blacked out. Epochal darkness everywhere else.</p>
			<p>No other rifters, anywhere.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Maybe the corpses had some weapon, something even Ken didn't suspect. Maybe they touched a button and everyone just vanished</i>
			</p>
			<p>But no. She can feel the corpses inside, their fear and apprehension and blind pants-pissing desperation radiating a good ten meters into the water. Not the kind of feelings you'd expect in the wake of overwhelming victory. If the corpses even know what's going on, it's not making them feel any better.</p>
			<p>She kicks off into the abyss, heading for Lubin's nerve hab. Now, finally, she can tune in faint stirrings from the water ahead. But no: it's just more of the same. More fear, more uncertainty. How can she still be reading Atlantis from this range? How can these sensations be getting <i>stronger</i> as the corpses recede behind her?</p>
			<p>It's not much of a mystery. Pretending otherwise barely brings enough comfort to justify the effort.</p>
			<p>Faint LFAM chatter rises in the water around her. Not much, considering; by now she can feel dozens of rifters, all subdued, all afraid. Hardly any of them speak aloud. A constellation of dim stars pulses faintly ahead. Someone crosses Clarke's path, ten or fifteen meters ahead, invisible but for a brief eclipse of running lights. His mind quails, washing over hers.</p>
			<p>So many of them have collected around the hab. They mill about like stunned fish or merely hang motionless in the water, waiting. Maybe this is all there is, maybe these are all the rifters left in the world. Apprehension hangs about them like a cloud.</p>
			<p>Perhaps Grace Nolan is here. Clarke feels cold, cleansing anger at the prospect. A dozen rifters turn at her thoughts and stare with dead white eyes.</p>
			<p>"What's going on?" Clarke buzzes. "Where is she?"</p>
			<p>"Fuck off, Len. We've got bigger problems right now." She doesn't recognize the speaker.</p>
			<p>Clarke swims toward the hab; most of the rifters part for her. Half a dozen block her way. Gomez. Cramer. Others in back, too black and distant to recognize in the brainstem ambience.</p>
			<p>"Is she in there?" Clarke says.</p>
			<p>"You back off," Cramer tells her. "You not be giving no orders here."</p>
			<p>"Oh, I'm not <i>ordering</i> anybody. It's completely up to you. You can either get out of my way, or try and stop me."</p>
			<p>"Is that Lenie?" Lubin's voice, air-normal channel.</p>
			<p>"Yeah," Cramer buzzes after a moment. "She be pretty—"</p>
			<p>"Let her in," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>It's a private party, by invitation only. Ken Lubin. Jelaine Chen and Dimitri Alexander. Avril Hopkinson.</p>
			<p>Grace Nolan.</p>
			<p>Lubin doesn't even look around as Clarke climbs up from the wet room. "Deal with it later. We need you in on this, Len, but we need Grace too. Either of you lays a hand on the other, I'll take my own measures."</p>
			<p>"Understood," Nolan says evenly.</p>
			<p>Clarke looks at her, and says nothing.</p>
			<p>"So." Lubin returns his attention to the monitor. "Where were we?"</p>
			<p>"I'm pretty sure it didn't see us," Chen says. "It was too preoccupied with the site itself, and that model doesn't have wraparound vision." She taps the screen twice in quick succession; the image at its center freezes and zooms.</p>
			<p>It looks like your garden-variety squid, but with a couple of manipulator arms at the front end and no towbar at the back. An AUV of some kind. It's obviously not from around here.</p>
			<p>Hopkinson sucks breath through clenched teeth. "That's it, then. They found us."</p>
			<p>"Maybe not," Chen says. "You can't teleop something that deep, not in that kind of terrain. It had to be running on its own. Whoever sent it wouldn't know what it found until it got back to the surface."</p>
			<p>"Or until it doesn't report back on schedule."</p>
			<p>Chen shrugs. "It's a big, dangerous ocean. It doesn't come back, they chalk it up to a mudslide or a faulty nav chip. No reason to suspect we had anything to do with it."</p>
			<p>Hopkinson shakes her head. "No <i>reason</i>? What's an AUV even <i>doing</i> down here if not looking for us?"</p>
			<p>"It would be a pretty amazing coincidence," Alexander agrees.</p>
			<p>Lubin reaches forward and taps the screen. The image de-zooms and continues playing where it left off. Acronyms and numbers cluster along the bottom edge of the screen, shifting and shuffling as the telemetry changes.</p>
			<p>The AUV's floating a few meters from the shore of Impossible Lake, just above the surface. One arm extends, dips a finger across the halocline, pulls back as if startled.</p>
			<p>"Look at that," Nolan says. "It's scared of hypersaline."</p>
			<p>The little robot moves a few meters into the hazy distance, and tries again.</p>
			<p>"And it wasn't aware of you any of this time?" Lubin asks.</p>
			<p>Alexander shakes his head. "Not until later. Like Laney said, it was too busy checking out the site."</p>
			<p>"You got footage of that?" Nolan again, like she doesn't have a care in the world. Like she isn't living on borrowed time.</p>
			<p>"Just a few seconds, back at the start. Real muddy, it doesn't show much. We didn't want to get too close, for obvious reasons."</p>
			<p>"Yet you sonared it repeatedly," Lubin remarks.</p>
			<p>Chen shrugs. "Seemed like the lesser of two evils. We had to get <i>some</i> track on what it was doing. Better than letting it see us."</p>
			<p>"And if it triangulated on your pings?"</p>
			<p>"We kept moving. Gapped the pings nice and wide. The most it could've known was that something was scanning the water column, and we've got a couple of things out there that do that anyway." Chen gestures at the screen, a little defensively. "It's all there in the track."</p>
			<p>Lubin grunts.</p>
			<p>"Okay, here's where it happens," Alexander says. "About thirty seconds from now."</p>
			<p>The AUV is fading in the haze, apparently heading towards one of the few streetlights that actually pokes above the surface of Impossible Lake. Just before it disappears entirely, a black mass eclipses the view; some ragged outcrop intruding from the left. No circles of light play across that surface, even though the sub is obviously mere meters away; Chen and Alexander are running dark, hiding behind the local topography. The view on the screen tilts and bobs as their sub maneuvers around the rocks: dark shadows on darker ones, barely visible in the dim light backscattered around corners.</p>
			<p>Alexander leans forward. "Here it comes "</p>
			<p>Light ahead and to the right; the far end of the outcropping cuts the edges of that brightening haze like a jumble of black shattered glass. The sub throttles back, moves forward more cautiously now, edges into the light—</p>
			<p>—and nearly collides with the AUV coming the other way.</p>
			<p>Two of the telemetry acronyms turn bright red and start flashing. There's no sound in the playback, but Clarke can imagine sirens in the sub's cockpit. For an instant, the AUV just sits there; Clarke swears she sees its stereocam irises go wide. Then it spins away—to continue its survey or to run like hell, depending on how smart it is.</p>
			<p>They'll never know. Because that's when something shoots into view from below camera range, an elongate streak like a jet of gray ink. It hits the AUV in mid-spin, splashes out and wraps around it, shrinks down around its prey like an elastic spiderweb. The AUV pulls against the restraints but the trailing ends of the mesh are still connected to the sub by a springy, filamentous tether.</p>
			<p>Clarke has never seen a cannon net in operation before. It's pretty cool.</p>
			<p>"So that's it," Alexander says as the image freezes. "We're just lucky we ran into it before we'd used up the net on one of your monster fish."</p>
			<p>"We're lucky I thought to use the net, too," Chen adds. "Who'da thunk it would come in so handy?" She frowns, and adds, "wish I knew what tipped the little beast off, though."</p>
			<p>"You were moving," Lubin tells her.</p>
			<p>"Yeah, of course. To keep it from getting a fix on our sonar signals, like you said."</p>
			<p>"It followed your engine noise."</p>
			<p>A little of the cockiness drains from Chen's posture.</p>
			<p>"So we've got it," Clarke says. "Right now."</p>
			<p>"Debbie's taking it apart now," Lubin says. "It wasn't booby-trapped, at least. She says we can probably get into its memory if there isn't any serious crypto."</p>
			<p>Hopkinson looks a bit more cheerful. "Seriously? We can just give it amnesia and send it on its way?"</p>
			<p>It sounds too good to be true. Lubin's look confirms it.</p>
			<p>"What?" Hopkinson says. "We fake the data stream, it goes back home and tells its mom there's nothing down here but mud and starfishies. What's the problem?"</p>
			<p>"How often do we go out there?" Lubin asks her.</p>
			<p>"What, to the Lake? Maybe once or twice a week, not counting all the times we went out to set the place up."</p>
			<p>"That's a very sparse schedule."</p>
			<p>"It's all we need, until the seismic data's in."</p>
			<p>The dread in Clarke's stomach—belayed a few moments ago, when the conversation turned to the hope of false memory—comes back like a tide, twice as cold as before. "<i>Shit,</i>" she whispers. "You're talking about the odds."</p>
			<p>Lubin nods. "There's virtually no chance we'd just happen to be in the area the very first time that thing came calling."</p>
			<p>"So this isn't the first time. It's been down there before," Clarke says.</p>
			<p>"Several times at least, I'd guess. It may have been to Impossible Lake more often than <i>we</i> have." Lubin looks around at the others. "Someone's already on to us. If we send this thing back with no record of the site, we'll simply be telling them that we <i>know</i> that."</p>
			<p>"Fuck," Nolan says in a shaky voice. "We're sockeye. Five years. We're complete sockeye."</p>
			<p>For once, Clarke's inclined to agree with her.</p>
			<p>"Not necessarily," Lubin says. "I don't think they've found us yet."</p>
			<p>"Gullshit. You said yourself, months ago, years even—"</p>
			<p>"<i>They haven't found us.</i>" Lubin speaks with that level, overly-controlled voice that speaks of thinning patience. Nolan immediately shuts up.</p>
			<p>"What they <i>have</i> found," Lubin continues after a moment, "is a grid of lights, seismic recorders, and survey sticks. For all they know it's the remains of some aborted mining operation." Chen opens her mouth: Lubin raises a palm, pre-empting her. "Personally I don't believe that. If they've got reason to look for us in this vicinity, they'll most likely assume that we're behind anything they discover.</p>
			<p>"But at most, the Lake only tells them that they're somewhere in the ballpark." Lubin smiles faintly. "That they are; we're only twenty kilometers away. Twenty pitch-black kilometers through the most extreme topography on the planet. If that's all they have to go on, they'll never find us."</p>
			<p>"Until they send something down to just sit quiet and wait for us," Hopkinson says, unconvinced. "Then follow us back."</p>
			<p>"Maybe they already have," Clarke suggests.</p>
			<p>"No alarms," Chen reminds her.</p>
			<p>Clarke remembers: there are transponders in every hab, every drone and vehicle down here. They talk nicely enough to each other, but they'll scream to wake the dead should sonar touch anything that doesn't know the local dialect. Clarke hasn't thought about them for years; they hail from the early days of exile, when fear of discovery lay like a leaden hand on everyone's mind. But in all this time the only enemies they've found have been each other.</p>
			<p>"Strange they haven't tried, though," Clarke says. It seems like an obvious thing to do.</p>
			<p>"Maybe they tried and lost us," Hopkinson suggests. "If they got too close we'd see them, and there's spots along that route where sonar barely gives you sixty meters line-of-sight."</p>
			<p>"Maybe they don't have the resources," Alexander says hopefully. "Maybe it's just a couple of guys on a boat with a treasure map."</p>
			<p>Nolan: "Maybe they just haven't got around to it yet."</p>
			<p>"Or maybe they don't have to," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>"What, you mean..." Something dawns on Hopkinson's face. "<i>Pest control</i>?"</p>
			<p>Lubin nods.</p>
			<p>Silence falls around the implications. Why spend valuable resources acquiring and following your target through territory which might be saturated with tripwires? Why risk giving yourself away when it's cheaper and simpler to trick your enemies into poisoning their own well?</p>
			<p>"Shit," Hopkinson breathes. "Like leaving poisoned food out for the ants, so they bring it back to the queen "</p>
			<p>Alexander's nodding. "And that's where it came from Behemoth was never supposed to show up anywhere around here, and all of a sudden, just like magic "</p>
			<p>"B-max came from goddamned <i>Atlantis</i>," Nolan snaps. "For all we know the strain out at the Lake's just baseline. We've only got the corpses' say-so that it isn't."</p>
			<p>"Yeah, but even the baseline strain wasn't supposed to show up out there—"</p>
			<p>"<i>Am I the only one who remembers the corpses built the baseline in the first place?</i>" Nolan glares around the room, white eyes blazing. "Rowan <i>admitted</i> it, for Chrissakes!"</p>
			<p>Her gaze settles on Clarke, pure antimatter. Clarke feels her hands bunching into fists at her side, feels the corner of her mouth pull back in a small sneer. None of her body language, she realizes, is intended to defuse the situation.</p>
			<p><i>Fuck it</i>, she decides, and takes one provocative step forward.</p>
			<p>"Oh, <i>right</i>," Nolan says, and charges.</p>
			<p>Lubin moves. It seems so effortless. One instant he's sitting at the console; the next, Nolan's crumpling to the deck like a broken doll. In the barely-perceptible time between Clarke thinks she saw Lubin rising from his chair, thinks she glimpsed his elbow in Nolan's diaphragm and his knee in her back. She may have even heard something, like the snapping of a tree branch across someone's leg. Now her rival lies flat on her back, motionless but for a sudden, manic fluttering of fingers and eyelids.</p>
			<p>Everyone else has turned to stone.</p>
			<p>Lubin pans across those still standing. "We are confronted with a common threat. No matter where B-max came from, we're unlikely to cure it without the corpses's help now that Bhanderi's dead. The corpses also have relevant expertise in other areas."</p>
			<p>Nolan gurgles at their feet, her arms in vague motion, her legs conspicuously immobile.</p>
			<p>"For example," Lubin continues, "Grace's back is broken at the third lumbar vertebra. Without help from Atlantis she'll spend the rest of her life paralysed from the waist down."</p>
			<p>Chen blanches. "<i>Jesus</i>, Ken!" Shocked from her paralysis, she kneels at Nolan's side.</p>
			<p>"It would be unwise to move her without a coccoon," Lubin says softly. "Perhaps Dimitri could scare one up."</p>
			<p>It only sounds like a suggestion. The airlock's cycling in seconds.</p>
			<p>"As for the rest of you good people," Lubin remarks in the same even tone, "I trust you can see that the situation has changed, and that cooperation with Atlantis is now in our best interest."</p>
			<p>They probably see exactly what Clarke does: a man who, without a second thought, has just snapped the spine of his own lieutenant to win an argument. Clarke stares down at her vanquished enemy. Despite the open eyes and the twitches, Nolan doesn't seem entirely conscious.</p>
			<p><i>Take that, murderer. Stumpfucking shit-licking cunt. Does it hurt,</i> sweetie <i>? Not enough. Not nearly enough.</i></p>
			<p>But the exultation is forced. She remembers how she felt as Rowan died, how she felt afterward: cold, killing rage, the absolute stone certainty that Nolan was going to pay with her life. And yet here she lies, helpless, broken by someone else's hand--and somehow, there's only charred emptiness where rage burned incandescent less than an hour before.</p>
			<p><i>I could finish the job</i>, she reflects. <i>If Ken didn't stop me.</i></p>
			<p>Is she so disloyal to the memory of her friend, that she takes so little pleasure in this? Has the sudden fear of discovery simply eclipsed her rage, or is it the same old excuse—that Lenie Clarke, gorged on revenge for a thousand lifetimes, has lost the stomach for it?</p>
			<p><i>Five years ago I didn't care if millions of innocents died</i>. <i>Now I'm too much of a coward</i> <i>even to punish the guilty.</i></p>
			<p>Some, she imagined, might even consider that an improvement...</p>
			<p>"—are still uncertainties," Lubin's saying, back at the console. "Maybe whoever sent the drone is responsible for B-max, maybe not. If they are, they've already made their move. If not, they're not <i>ready</i> to move. Even if they know <i>exactly</i> where we are—and I think that unlikely—they either don't have all their pieces in place yet, or they're biding their time for some other reason."</p>
			<p>He unfreezes the numbers on the board, wasting no more attention on the thing gurgling on the deck behind him.</p>
			<p>Chen glances uneasily at Nolan, but Lubin's message is loud and clear: <i>I'm in charge. Get over it.</i></p>
			<p>"What reason?" she asks after a moment.</p>
			<p>Lubin shrugs.</p>
			<p>"How much time do we have?"</p>
			<p>"More than if we tip our hand." Lubin folds his arms across his chest and stretches isometrically. Muscles and tendons flex disconcertingly beneath his diveskin. "If they know we're on to them they may feel their hand has been forced, move now rather than later. So we play along to buy time. We edit the drone's memory and release it with some minor systems glitch that would explain any delay in its return. We'll also have to search the Lake site for surveillance devices, and cut a grid within at least a half-kilometer of Atlantis and the trailer park. Lane's right: it's unlikely that an AUV planted those mines, but if one did there'll be a detonator somewhere within LFAM range."</p>
			<p>"Okay." Hopkinson looks away from her fallen comrade with evident effort. "So we—we make up with Atlantis, we fake out the drone, and we comb the area for other nasties. Then what?"</p>
			<p>"Then I go back," Lubin tells her.</p>
			<p>"What, to the Lake?"</p>
			<p>Lubin smiles faintly. "Back to N'Am."</p>
			<p>Hopkinson whistles in tuneless surprise. "Well, I guess if <i>anyone</i> can take them on "</p>
			<p><i>Take on who, exactly?</i> Clarke wonders. No one asks aloud. <i>Who</i> is everyone left behind. <i>Them</i>. <i>They</i> are dedicated to our destruction <i>They</i> sniff along the Mid Atlantic Ridge, obsessed in their endless myopic search for that one set of coordinates to feed into their torpedoes.</p>
			<p>No one asks why, either. There is no <i>why</i> behind the hunt: it's just what <i>they</i> do. Don't go rooting around for reasons. Asking <i>why</i> accomplishes nothing: there are too many reasons to count, none of the living lack for motive. This fractured, bipolar microcosm stagnates and festers on the ocean floor, every reason for its existence reduced to an axiom: just <i>because</i>.</p>
			<p>And yet, how many of the people here—how many of the rifters, how many, even of the drybacks— really brought the curtain down? For every corpse with blood on her hands, how many others—family, friends, drones who maintain plumbing and machinery and flesh—are guilty of nothing but association?</p>
			<p>And if Lenie Clarke hadn't been so furiously intent on revenge that she could write off an entire world as an incidental expense, would any of it have come to this?</p>
			<p><i>Alyx</i>, Rowan said.</p>
			<p>"No you don't." Clarke shakes her head.</p>
			<p>Lubin speaks to the screen. "The most we can do down here is buy time. We have to <i>use</i> that time."</p>
			<p>"Yes, but—"</p>
			<p>"We're blind and deaf and under attack. The ruse has failed, Lenie. We need to know what we're facing, which means we have to <i>face</i> it. Hoping for the best is no longer a viable option."</p>
			<p>"Not you," Clarke says.</p>
			<p>Lubin turns to face her, one eyebrow raised in silent commentary.</p>
			<p>She looks back, completely unfazed. "We."</p>
			<p>He refuses three times before they even get outside.</p>
			<p>"Someone needs to take charge here," he insists as the airlock floods. "You're the obvious choice. No one will give you any trouble now that Grace has been sidelined."</p>
			<p>Clarke feels a chill in her gut. "Is <i>that</i> what that was? She'd served her purpose and you wanted me back in play so you just—broke her in half?"</p>
			<p>"I'd wager it's no worse than what <i>you</i> had in mind for her."</p>
			<p><i>I'm going to fucking kill you, Grace. I'm going to gut you like a fish</i>.</p>
			<p>"I'm going." she says. The hatch drops away beneath them.</p>
			<p>"Do you honestly think you can force me to take you?" He brakes, turns, kicks out from under the light.</p>
			<p>She follows. "Do you think <i>you</i> can afford to do this without any backup at all?"</p>
			<p>"More than I can afford an untrained sidekick who's signed up for all the wrong reasons."</p>
			<p>"You don't know shit about my reasons."</p>
			<p>"You'll hold me back," Lubin buzzes. "I stand much better odds if I don't have to keep watching out for you. If you get in trouble—"</p>
			<p>"Then you'll ditch me," she says. "In a second. I know what your battlefield priorities are. Shit, Ken, I <i>know</i> you."</p>
			<p>"Recent events would suggest otherwise."</p>
			<p>She stares at him, adamant. He scissors rhythmically on into darkness.</p>
			<p><i>Where's he going?</i> she wonders.<i>There's nothing on this bearing...</i></p>
			<p>"You can't deny that you're not equipped for this kind of op," he points out. "You don't have the training."</p>
			<p>"Which must make it pretty embarrassing for you, given that I got all the way across N'Am before you and your army and all your ballyhooed <i>training</i> could even catch up with me." She smiles under her mask, not kindly; he can't see it but maybe he can tune in the sentiment. "I beat you, Ken. Maybe I wasn't nearly as smart, or as well-trained, and maybe I didn't have all of N'Am's muscle backing me up, but I stayed ahead of you for <i>months</i> and you know it."</p>
			<p>"You had quite a lot of help," he points out.</p>
			<p>"Maybe I still do."</p>
			<p>His rhythm falters. Perhaps he hasn't thought of that.</p>
			<p>She takes the opening. "Think about it, Ken. All those virtual viruses getting together, muddying my tracks, running interference, turning me into a fucking myth "</p>
			<p>"Anemone wasn't working for you," he buzzes. "It was <i>using</i> you. You were just—"</p>
			<p>"A tool. A meme in a plan for Global Apocalypse. Give me a break, Ken, it's not like I could forget that shit even if I tried. But so what? I was still the vector. It was looking out for <i>me</i>. It liked me enough to keep <i>you</i> lot off my back, anyway. Who's to say it isn't still out there? Where else do those software demons come from? You think it's a coincidence they name themselves after me?"</p>
			<p>Barely discernible, his silhouette extends an arm. Click trains spray the water. He starts off again, his bearing slightly altered.</p>
			<p>"Are you suggesting," he buzzes, "that if you go back and announce yourself to Anemone—whatever's become of it—that it's going to throw some sort of magic shield around you?"</p>
			<p>"Maybe n—"</p>
			<p>"It's <i>changed</i>. It was <i>always</i> changing, from moment to moment. It couldn't possibly have survived the way we remember it, and if the things we've encountered recently are any indication of what it's turned into, you don't want to renew the acquaintance."</p>
			<p>"Maybe," Clarke admits. "But maybe some part of its basic agenda <i>hasn't</i> changed. It's alive, right? That's what everyone keeps saying. Doesn't matter that it was built out of electrons instead of carbon, <i>Life's just self-replicating information shaped by natural selection</i> so it's in the club. And <i>we've</i> got genes in us that haven't changed in a million generations. Why should this thing be any different? How do you know there isn't some protect-Lenie subroutine snoozing in the code somewhere? And by the way, where the fuck are we <i>going</i>?"</p>
			<p>Lubin's headlamp spikes to full intensity, lays a bright jiggling oval on the substrate ahead. "There."</p>
			<p>It's a patch of bone-gray mud like any other. She can't see so much as a pebble to distinguish it.</p>
			<p><i>Maybe it's a burial plot</i>, she thinks, suddenly giddy. <i>Maybe this is where he's been feeding his habit all these years, on devolved natives and MIAs and now on the stupid little girl who wouldn't take no for an answer...</i></p>
			<p>Lubin thrusts one arm into the ooze. The mud shudders around his shoulder, as if something beneath were pushing back. Which is exactly what's happening; Ken's awakened something under the surface. He pulls his arm back up and the thing follows, heaving into view. Clumps and chalky clouds cascade from its sides as it clears the substrate.</p>
			<p>It's a swollen torus about a meter and a half wide. A dotted line of hydraulic nozzles ring its equator. Two layers of flexible webbing stretch across the hole in its center, one on top, one on the bottom; a duffle bag, haphazardly stuffed with lumpy objects, occupies the space between. Through the billowing murk and behind clumps of mud still adhering to its surface, it shines slick as a diveskin.</p>
			<p>"I packed a few things away for a return trip," Lubin buzzes. "As a precaution."</p>
			<p>He sculls backward a few meters. The mechanical bellhop spins a quarter-turn, spits muddy water from its thrusters, and heels.</p>
			<p>They start back.</p>
			<p>"So that's your plan," Lubin buzzes after a while. "Find something that evolved to help you destroy the world, hope that it's got a better nature you can appeal to, and—"</p>
			<p>"And wake the fucker with a kiss," Clarke finishes. "Who's to say I can't?"</p>
			<p>He swims on, towards the glow that's just starting to brighten the way ahead. His eyes reflect crescents of dim light.</p>
			<p>"I guess we'll find out," he says at last.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
