<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Portrait of the Sadist as a Young Boy</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-1" id="chapter-1-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Portrait of the Sadist as a Young Boy</h3>
			<p>Achilles Desjardins wasn't always the most powerful man in North America; at one time he'd been just another kid growing up in the shadow of Mont St-Hilaire. He <i>had</i> always been an empiricist though, an experimenter at heart for as long as he could remember. His first encounter with a research-ethics committee had occurred when he was only eight.</p>
			<p>That particular experiment had involved aerobraking. His parents, in a well-intentioned effort to interest him in the classics, had introduced him to <i>The Revenge of Mary Poppins</i>. The story itself was pretty stupid, but Achilles liked the way the Persinger Box had slipped the butterfly-inducing sensation of <i>flight</i> directly into his brain. Mary Poppins had this nanotech umbrella, see, and she could jump right off the top of the CN Tower and float to earth as gently as a dandelion seed.</p>
			<p>The illusion was so convincing that Achilles' eight-year-old brain couldn't see why it wouldn't work in real life.</p>
			<p>His family was rich—all Quebecois families were, thanks to Hudson Hydro—so Achilles lived in a real house, a single stand-alone dwelling with a yard and everything. He grabbed an umbrella from the closet, let it bloom, and—clutching tightly with both hands—jumped off the front porch. The drop was only a meter and a half, but that was enough; he could feel the umbrella grabbing at the air above him, slowing his descent.</p>
			<p>Buoyed by this success, Achilles moved on to Phase Two. His sister Penny, two years younger, held him in almost supernatural esteem; it was dead easy to talk her into scrambling up the trellis and onto the roof. It took a bit more effort to coax her to the very peak of the gable, which must have been a good seven meters above ground—but when your big-brother-who-you-idolize is calling you a chickenshit, what are you supposed to do? Penny inched her way to the apex and stood teetering at the edge, the dome of the umbrella framing her face like a big black halo. For a moment Achilles thought the experiment would fail: he had to bring out his ultimate weapon and call her "Penelope"—<i>twice</i>—before she jumped.</p>
			<p>There was nothing to worry about, of course. Achilles already knew it would work; the umbrella had slowed <i>him</i> after all, even during a drop of a measly meter or so, and Penny weighed a <i>lot</i> less than he did.</p>
			<p>Which made it all the more surprising when the umbrella snapped inside-out, <i>whap</i>!, right before his eyes. Penny dropped like a rock, landed on her feet with a <i>snap</i> and crumpled on the spot.</p>
			<p>In the moment of complete silence that followed, several things went through the mind of eight-year-old Achilles Desjardins. First was the fact that the goggle-eyed look on Penny's face had been <i>really</i> funny just before she hit. Second was confusion and disbelief that the experiment hadn't proceeded as expected; he couldn't for the life of him figure out what had gone wrong. Third came the belated realization that Penny, for all the hilarity of her facial expression, might actually be hurt; maybe he should try and do something about that.</p>
			<p>Lastly, he thought of the trouble he was going to be in if his parents found out about this. That thought crushed the others like bugs under a boot.</p>
			<p>He rushed over to the crumpled form of his sister on the lawn. "<i>Geez</i>, Penny, are you—are you—"</p>
			<p>She wasn't. The umbrella's ribs had torn free of the fabric and slashed her across the side of the neck. One of her ankles was twisted at an impossible angle, and had already swollen to twice its normal size. There was blood everywhere.</p>
			<p>Penny looked up, lip trembling, bright tears quivering in her eyes. They broke and ran down her cheeks as Achilles stood over her, scared to death.</p>
			<p>"Penny—" he whispered.</p>
			<p>"I—it's okay," she quavered. "I won't tell anyone. I promise." And—broken and bleeding and teary-eyed, eyes brimming with undiminished adoration for Big Brother—she tried to get up, and screamed the instant she moved her leg.</p>
			<p>Looking back as an adult, Desjardins knew that that couldn't have been the moment of his first erection. It was, however, the first one that stuck in his mind. He hadn't been able to help himself: she had been so <i>helpless</i>. Broken and bleeding and hurt. <i>He</i> had hurt her. She had meekly walked the plank for him, and after she'd fallen and snapped like a twig she'd looked up at him, still worshipful, ready to do whatever it took to keep him happy.</p>
			<p>He didn't know why that made him feel this way—he didn't even know what <i>this way</i> was, exactly—but he liked it.</p>
			<p>His willy hard as a bone, he reached out to her. He wasn't sure why—he was grateful that she wasn't going to tell, of course, but he didn't think that's what this was about. He thought—as his hand touched his sister's fine brown hair—that maybe this was about seeing how much he could get <i>away</i> with...</p>
			<p>Not much, as it turned out. His parents were on him in the next second, shrieking and striking. Achilles raised his hands against his father's blows, cried "<i>I saw it on Mary Poppins!</i>", but the alibi didn't fly any more than Penny had; Dad kicked the shit out of him and threw him into his room for the rest of the day.</p>
			<p>It couldn't have ended any differently, of course. Mom and Dad always found out. It turned out the little bump that both Achilles and Penny had under their collarbones sent out a signal when either of them got hurt. And after the Mary Poppins Incident, not even the implants were enough for Mom and Dad. Achilles couldn't go anywhere, not even the bathroom, without three or four skeeters following him around like nosy floating rice grains.</p>
			<p>All in all, that afternoon taught him two things that shaped the rest of his life. One was that he was a wicked, wicked boy who could never <i>ever</i> give in to his impulses no matter <i>how</i> good it made him feel, or he would go straight to Hell.</p>
			<p>The other was a profound and lifelong appreciation of the impact of ubiquitous surveillance.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
