<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Nemesis</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction" data-parent="division-1">
		<section id="chapter-1-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Nemesis</h3>
			<p>Clarke doesn't often go into the residential quarter. She doesn't remember ever having been in this particular section. The corridor here is sheathed in lattice paint and wired up to a mural generator. A forest of antlered coral crowds the port bulkhead; surgeonfish school and swirl to starboard, like the nodes of some abstract and diffuse neural net. A mesh of fractured sunlight dances across everything. Clarke can't tell whether the illusion is purely synthetic, or powered by archived footage of a real coral reef. She wouldn't even know how to tell the difference; of all the sea creatures which have made her acquaintance over the years, none have lived in sunlight.</p>
			<p>A lot of families along here, Clarke figures. Adults don't go in for evocations of the wild kingdom as a rule; it's kind of hard to retain that aesthetic once you've grasped the concept of irony.</p>
			<p>Here it is: D-18. She taps the doorbell. A muffled musical chime drifts through the closed hatch; a reedy thread of music, a faint voice, the sounds of motion.</p>
			<p>The hatch swings open. A stocky girl of about ten looks out at her from under spiky blond bangs. The music wafts around her from the interior of the compartment—Lex's flute, Clarke realizes.</p>
			<p>The smile dies on the girl's face the instant she lays eyes on Lenie Clarke.</p>
			<p>"Hi," Clarke says. "I was looking for Alyx." She tries a smile of her own on for size.</p>
			<p>It doesn't fit. The girl takes a stumbling step backward. "Lex "</p>
			<p>The music stops. "What? Who is it?"</p>
			<p>The blonde girl steps aside, nervous as a cat. Alyx Rowan sits blinded on a couch in the center of the room. One of her hands lowers the flute; the other reaches up to the mother-of-pearl 'phones covering her eyes.</p>
			<p>"Hey, Lex," Clarke says. "Your mom said you'd be here."</p>
			<p>"Lenie! You passed!"</p>
			<p>"Passed?"</p>
			<p>"Quarantine! They said you and psycho-man were locked up for tests or something. I guess you aced them." A wheeled rectangular pedestal about a meter high squats in front of the couch, a little obelisk with the same opalescent finish as Alyx's headset. Alyx sets her 'phones down on top of it, next to an identical pair already at rest.</p>
			<p>Clarke limps into the room. Alyx's face clouds instantly. "What happened to your leg?"</p>
			<p>"Rogue squid. Rudder got me."</p>
			<p>Alyx's friend mutters something from the corner of Clarke's eye and disappears into the corridor. Clarke turns in her wake.</p>
			<p>"Your friend doesn't like me much."</p>
			<p>Alyx waves a dismissive hand. "Kelly spooks easy. One look and she just flashfeeds all the shit her mom ever spewed about you guys. She's nice, but she doesn't high-grade her sources at <i> all</i>." The girl shrugs, dismissing the subject. "So what's up?"</p>
			<p>"You know that quarantine I was buzzing on about a while back?"</p>
			<p>Alyx frowns. "That guy that got bitten. Erickson."</p>
			<p>"Yeah. Well, it looks like he came down with something after all, and the basic thumbnail is we've decided to invoke a kind of <i>No Fish-heads</i> policy in Atlantis for the time being."</p>
			<p>"You're letting them kick you out?"</p>
			<p>"I actually think it's a good idea," Clarke admits.</p>
			<p>"Why? What's he got?"</p>
			<p>Clarke shakes her head. "It's not really a medical thing, although that's—part of it. It's just—feelings are running kind of high right now, on both sides. Your mom and I thought it'd be better if your guys and our guys kept out of each other's way. Just for a while."</p>
			<p>"How come? What's going on?"</p>
			<p>"Your mom didn't—?" It belatedly occurs to Clarke that Patricia Rowan might have opted to keep certain things from her daughter. For that matter, she doesn't even know how much of Atlantis's <i>adult</i> population has been brought up to speed. Corpses aren't keen on full disclosure just as a matter of general principle.</p>
			<p>Not that Lenie Clarke gives a great crimson turd about corpse sensibilities. Still. She doesn't want to get in between Pat and—</p>
			<p>"Lenie?" Alyx is staring at her, brow furrowed. She's one of the very few people that Clarke can comfortably show her naked eyes to; right now, though, Clarke's glad her caps are in.</p>
			<p>She takes a couple of paces across the carpet. Another facet of the pedestal comes into view. Some kind of control panel runs in a strip just below its upper edge, a band of dark perspex twinkling with red and blue icons. A luminous jagged waveform, like an EEG, scrolls horizontally along its length.</p>
			<p>"What's this?" Clarke asks, seizing on the diversion. It's far too big to be any kind of game interface.</p>
			<p>"That? Oh." Alyx shrugs. "That's Kelly's. It's a head cheese."</p>
			<p>"<i>What!</i>"</p>
			<p>"You know, a smart gel. Neuron culture with—"</p>
			<p>"I know what it is, Lex. I just—I guess I'm surprised to see one here, after "</p>
			<p>"Wanna see it?" Alyx taps a brief tattoo on the top of the cabinet. The nacreous surface swirls briefly and clears: beneath the newly-transparent façade, a slab of pinkish-gray tissue sits within its circular rim like a bowl of fleshy oatmeal. Flecks of brown glass punctuate the pudding in neat perforated lines.</p>
			<p>"It's not very big," Alyx says. "Way smaller than the ones they had back in the old days. Kelly says it's about the same as a cat."</p>
			<p><i>So it's evil at least, if not hugely intelligent. </i>"What's it for?" Clarke wonders. <i>Surely they wouldn't be stupid enough to use these things after—</i></p>
			<p>"It's kind of a pet," Alyx says apologetically. "She calls it Rumble."</p>
			<p>"A <i>pet</i>?"</p>
			<p>"Sure. It thinks, sort of. It learns to do stuff. Even if no one really knows how, exactly."</p>
			<p>"Oh, so you heard about that, did you?"</p>
			<p>"It's a lot smaller than the ones that, you know, worked for you."</p>
			<p>"<i>They didn't w—</i>"</p>
			<p>"It's really harmless. It's not hooked into life support or anything."</p>
			<p>"So what does it do? You teach it tricks?" The porridge of brains glistens like an oozing sore.</p>
			<p>"Kind of. It talks back if you say stuff to it. Doesn't always make a lot of sense, but that's what makes it fun. And if you tweak the audio feed right it plays these really cool color patterns in time to music." Alyx grabs her flute off the couch, gestures at the eyephones. "Wanna see?"</p>
			<p>"A pet," Clarke murmurs. <i>You bloody corpses </i></p>
			<p>"We're not, you know," Alyx says sharply. "Not all of us."</p>
			<p>"Sorry? Not what?"</p>
			<p>"Corpses. What does that mean, anyway? My mom? <i>Me</i>?"</p>
			<p><i>Did I say that out loud? </i>"Just—corporate types, I guess." She's never spent much time pondering the origin of the term, any more than she's lost sleep over the etiology of <i>chair</i> or <i>fumarole</i>.</p>
			<p>"Well in case you didn't notice, there's a lot of other people in here. Crunchers and doctors and just <i>families</i>."</p>
			<p>"Yeah, I know. Of course I know—"</p>
			<p>"But you just lump us all together, you know? If we don't have a bunch of pipes in our chest we're all just <i>corpses</i> as far as you're concerned."</p>
			<p>"Well—sorry." And then, belatedly defensive: "I'm not slagging you, you know. It's just a word."</p>
			<p>"Yeah, well it's not <i>just a word</i> to all you fishheads."</p>
			<p>"Sorry." Clarke says again. A distance seems to open between them, although neither has moved.</p>
			<p>"Anyway," she says after a while, "I just wanted you to know I won't be inside for a while. We can still talk, of course, but—"</p>
			<p>Movement from the hatchway. A large stocky man steps into the compartment, dark hair combed back, eyebrows knotted together, his whole body a telegraph of leashed hostility. Kelly's father.</p>
			<p>"Ms. Clarke," he says evenly.</p>
			<p>Her guts tighten into a hard, angry knot. She knows that look. She knows that stance, she saw it herself more times than she could count when she was Kelly's age. She knows what <i>fathers</i> do, she knows what <i>hers</i> did, but she's not a little girl any more and Kelly's dad looks very much in need of a <i>lesson</i>...</p>
			<p>But she has to keep reminding herself. None of it happened.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
