<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>The Skill of the Chase</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">The Skill of the Chase</h3>
			<p>A CSIRA drone, floating like thistledown just below the jet stream, caught the heat trace at 0300. It was warming Service Road 23 northeast of Skowhagen, and it shared certain characteristics with another source— two hours older— that had been glimpsed by a lifter shipping medical supplies out of Portland. Resupply hauls weren't normally charged with surveillance, but everyone was on alert since the word had come down from Sudbury.</p>
			<p>Both signatures matched the emissions put out by a brand of hydrogen cell that hadn't been manufactured since 2044. Someone was driving the shit out of an old Ford Fugitive, traveling inland along back roads in the middle of the night.</p>
			<p>One of Ouellette's vectors had driven a Fugitive. Lubin caught up with her somewhere on the far side of the New Hampshire border.</p>
			<p>Desjardins had requisitioned him an ultralight. It wasn't as fast as ground-effect transport, but its cruising altitude was a lot higher and it drank fewer Joules than a chopper. Lubin was flying west at about two hundred meters when the Ford bounced sunlight into his eye. It was parked on the edge of an acid-washed bog full of rusty tannins and jagged waterlogged stumps. The wetland seemed to have grown since Highway Maintenance had given up on the neighborhood; a tongue of dark water lapped across a few meters of low-lying asphalt just ahead of the vehicle.</p>
			<p>That wasn't what had stopped it, though.</p>
			<p>Lubin landed fifty meters up the road and approached from behind. His inlays performed the usual schematic vivisection as he drew near, cluttered up his vision with icons and wiring diagrams. His gut rebelled at the mere thought of tuning out usable intel from any source, but sometimes it distracted more than it informed. He shut down the display in his head; the Fugitive dropped back into the real world, seemed to <i>flatten</i> somehow, luminous guts vanishing behind dirty plastic skin.</p>
			<p>A blonde mocha woman sat in the driver's seat, forehead against the wheel, long straight hair obscuring her face. She seemed oblivious to his approach.</p>
			<p>He tapped on the window. She turned apathetically at the sound. He knew immediately that something was wrong: her face was flushed and shiny with perspiration.</p>
			<p>She knew something was wrong, too. Lubin's isolation skin would have pretty much given that away even if she <i>hadn't</i> been sick.</p>
			<p><i>Three days</i>, he thought.</p>
			<p>The door was unlocked. He pulled it open and stepped back.</p>
			<p>"They told us...it was a cure," she said. It took her two breaths.</p>
			<p>"Do you have any left?" Lubin asked.</p>
			<p>She gulped. "Some. Spread most of it around." She shook her head. "Gave some to Aaron, too. Couple of days ago."</p>
			<p>A transparent bladder lay on the seat beside her. It had been drained almost flat. The culture that remained, sucked into creases and wrinkles in the deflated bag, was no longer amber in color; it was dark and gray as anoxic mud.</p>
			<p>"What happened to it?" he asked.</p>
			<p>"I don't know. Changed." She shook her head tiredly. "She said it would last a <i>week</i>..."</p>
			<p>He leaned forward. She still had the presence of mind to look vaguely startled when she saw him up close. "You were one of them. <i>You</i> were one of them. I saw you there..."</p>
			<p>"I need to know where you seeded it," he said. "I need to know everyone you've been in contact with since Freeport, and how to get in touch with them."</p>
			<p>She held up one limp-wristed arm, showing off her wristwatch. "Aaron's in here. We split up. Thought...we'd cover more ground..."</p>
			<p>He took the watch. Its phone feature wasn't much use without the earbud, but he could deal with Aaron later.</p>
			<p>"I was talking to him just this morning," the woman managed. "He's not—not doing too well himself."</p>
			<p>He circled the Fugitive and climbed in the passenger's side. Nav was offline—a precaution left over from the previous week, when the ether had been enemy territory. He brought up dashboard GPS and scaled the map to include the coast.</p>
			<p>"Everywhere you stopped," he said. "Everyone you met."</p>
			<p>"I'm sick," she sighed.</p>
			<p>"I can get you to a hospital. A <i>real</i> hospital," he promised, sweetening the pot. "But you have to help me first."</p>
			<p>She told him what she could. Finally he climbed back into sunshine and headed for the ultralight. Halfway there he paused and looked back.</p>
			<p><i>She could make a run for it</i>, he thought. <i>She's not too sick to drive. She could try to escape.</i></p>
			<p><i>Or,</i> eyeing the stained water by the road, <i>she could just lurch into the water and infect the whole bog. Much more difficult to contain after that.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>Maybe she's a loose end.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Idle musing, of course. There was no immediate threat here, nothing to justify extreme prejudice. Not that that was always likely to be the case, the way this thing was spreading. This was the second vector Lubin had tracked down, and the first of Ouellette's original trio. The other had been a secondary who'd picked up the baton in her wake, and <i>he'd</i> admitted to seeding still others. How far the other two Patient Zeroes had run was still anyone's guess. And now there was <i>Aaron</i> to deal with, not to mention the half-dozen places where this woman had dribbled little aliquots of Seppuku in her wake...</p>
			<p>He could afford to wait, he told himself. The way things were going, he'd have all the excuse he needed before long. Not that he needed excuses any more, of course. Ken Lubin had been a free agent for years.</p>
			<p><i>Play nice</i>, he told himself. <i>Play by the rules.</i></p>
			<p>He did. He called the ambulance before he called the flamethrowers, stood guard until it floated in from the west, sprayed himself down and climbed back into the sky. He banked southeast, backtracking the vector's route. A lifter appeared in the middle distance and paced him for a while, cruising like a great dark cloud towards the target areas he'd pinpointed. Pilot lights sparked faintly at the tips of the long, incendiary muzzles hanging from its underbelly. Puffy pink and green clouds erupted intermittently in the airspace beneath it, cotton-candy litmus tests sniffing out infection.</p>
			<p>He edged up the throttle. By now, Aaron's partner would be bagged and on her way. Taka Ouellette would be running tests on her by nightfall.</p>
			<p>If Ouellette was running tests on <i>anything</i>, of course. Lubin had his doubts.</p>
			<p>He remembered the first time he had met Achilles Desjardins. He had broken into the 'lawbreaker's home and caught him <i>in flagrante delecto</i> with a VR sensorium that served up wraparound scenarios of sexual torture. Desjardins would have never inflicted those impulses on the real world back <i>then</i>, of course, but a lot of things had changed in the meantime. Rules had changed. Leashes had been slipped. Official hierarchies had crumbled, leaving those who wielded power miraculously free of oversight.</p>
			<p>Lubin had eavesdropped briefly on Desjardins's fantasy life before getting down to business. He'd gained some idea of that man's taste in women, as well as what he liked to do to them. And so five years later, when Taka Ouellette had climbed into the belly of a CSIRA helicopter, Lubin had watched with a dispassionate sense of finality.</p>
			<p>Desjardins had promised her a role in the fight against Seppuku. He had evoked visions of bright gleaming laboratories normally reserved for bona-fide Meatzarts. The prospect had lit her up like a halogen floodlamp. One look and Lubin had known her secret desire, the desperate, unimagined hope of redemption for some past sin.</p>
			<p>By now, it was easy enough to recognize.</p>
			<p>He had been interested in whether the aircraft would head southwest, towards Boston. That was where the nearest research facilities would be. But instead it had disappeared to the north, and Lubin had not heard from Ouellette in the days since.</p>
			<p>Not that he could have expected to, of course. Even if Desjardins had been telling the truth. And Lubin had to admit, with the logical clarity of an amoral mind, that it didn't make much difference either way. Taka Ouellette was not the caliber of scientist who'd last in the ring against any kind of heavyweight opponent. If she had been, they wouldn't have found her relegated to wildland patrol, handing out crumbs to the ferals. Her loss would matter not at all in the fight against Seppuku.</p>
			<p>Achilles Desjardins, on the other hand, was vital. Whether he was also a sexual predator was irrelevant; he might well be instrumental in the saving of billions. Lubin couldn't think of many depravities that could not be overlooked in the pursuit of that higher goal. It was what the <i>Greater Good</i> was all about.</p>
			<p>He almost felt envious.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
