<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Zombie</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-1" id="chapter-1-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Zombie</h3>
			<p>Twenty kilometers separate Atlantis and Impossible Lake. Not far enough for those who still think in dryback terms. A mere twenty klicks from the bull's-eye? What kind of safety margin is that? Back on shore the most simpleminded drone wouldn't be fooled by such a trifling displacement: finding the target missing, it would rise up and partition the world into a concentric gridwork, relentlessly checking off one quadrate after another until some inevitable telltale gave the game away. Shit, most machinery could just sit at the center of the search zone and <i>see</i> twenty kilometers in any direction.</p>
			<p>Even in the midwaters of the open ocean, twenty kilometers is no safe distance. No substrate exists there but water itself, no topography but gyres and seiches and Langmuir cells, thermoclines and haloclines that reflect and amplify as well as mask. The cavitation of submarines might propagate down vast distances, the miniscule turbulence of their passing detectable long after the vessels themselves are gone. Not even stealthed subs can avoid heating the water some infinitesimal amount; dolphins and machinery, hot on the trail, can tell the difference.</p>
			<p>But on the Mid Atlantic Ridge, twenty kilometers might as well be twenty parsecs. Light has no chance: the sun itself barely penetrates a few hundred meters from the surface. Hydrothermal vents throw up their corrosive vomit along oozing seams of fresh rock. Seafloor spreading sets the very floor of the world to grumbling, mountains pushing against each other in their millennial game of kick-the-continents. Topography that shames the Himalayas cascades along a jagged fracture splitting the crust from pole to pole. The ambience of the Ridge drowns out anything Atlantis might let slip, along any spectrum you'd care to name.</p>
			<p>You could still find a target with the right coordinates, but you'd miss a whole screaming city if those numbers were off by even a hair. A displacement of twenty kilometers should be more than enough to get out from under any attack centered on Atlantis's present location, short of full-scale depth-saturation nukes perhaps.</p>
			<p>Which wouldn't be entirely without precedent, now that Clarke thinks about it...</p>
			<p>She and Lubin cruise smoothly along a crack in a fan of ancient lava. Atlantis is far behind, Impossible Lake still klicks ahead. Headlamps and squidlamps are dark. They travel by the dim dashboard light of their sonar displays. Tiny iconised boulders and pillars pass by on the screens, mapped in emerald; the slightest sensations of pressure and looming mass press in from the scrolling darkness to either side.</p>
			<p>"Rowan thinks things could get nasty," Clarke buzzes.</p>
			<p>Lubin doesn't comment.</p>
			<p>"She figures, if this really does turn out to be Behemoth, Atlantis is gonna turn into Cognitive Dissonance Central. Get everybody all worked up."</p>
			<p>Still nothing.</p>
			<p>"I reminded her who was in charge."</p>
			<p>"And who is that, exactly?" Lubin buzzes at last.</p>
			<p>"Come on, Ken. We can shut them down any time we feel like it."</p>
			<p>"They've had five years to work on that."</p>
			<p>"And what's it got them?"</p>
			<p>"They've also had five years to realize that they outnumber us twenty to one, that we don't have nearly their technical expertise on a wide range of relevant subjects, and that a group of glorified pipe-fitters with antisocial personalities is unlikely to pose much threat in terms of organized opposition."</p>
			<p>"That was just as true when we wiped the floor with them the first time."</p>
			<p>"No."</p>
			<p>She doesn't understand why he's doing this. It was Lubin more than anyone who put the corpses in their place after their first—and last—uprising. "Come <i>on</i>, Ken—"</p>
			<p>His squid is suddenly very close, almost touching.</p>
			<p>"You're not an idiot," he buzzes at her side. "It's never a good time to act like one."</p>
			<p>Stung, she falls silent.</p>
			<p>His vocoder growls on in the darkness. "Back then they saw the whole world backing us up. They knew we'd had help tracking them down. They inferred some kind of ground-based infrastructure. At the very least, they knew we could blow the whistle and turn them into a great pulsing bullseye for anyone with lats and longs and a smart torp."</p>
			<p>A great luminous shark-fin swells on her screen, a massive stone blade thrusting up from the seabed. Lubin disappears briefly as it passes between them.</p>
			<p>"But now we're on our own," he says, reappearing. "Our groundside connections have dried up. Maybe they're dead, maybe they've turned. Nobody knows. Can you even remember the last time we had a changing of the guard?"</p>
			<p>She can, just barely. Anyone qualified for the diveskin is bound to be more comfortable down here than in dryback company at the best of times, but a few rifters went topside at the very beginning anyway. Back when there might have been some hope of turning the tide.</p>
			<p>Not since. Risking your life to watch the world end isn't anyone's idea of shore leave.</p>
			<p>"By now we're just as scared as the corpses," Lubin buzzes. "We're just as cut off, and there are almost a thousand of them. We're down to fifty-eight at last count."</p>
			<p>"We're seventy at least."</p>
			<p>"The natives don't count. Fifty eight of us would be any use in a fight, and only forty could last a week in full gravity if they had to. And a number of those have...authority issues that make them unwilling to organize."</p>
			<p>"We've got you," Clarke says. Lubin, the professional hunter-killer, so recently freed from any leash but his own self-control. <i>No glorified pipe-fitter here</i>, she reflects.</p>
			<p>"Then you should listen to me. And I'm starting to think we may have to do something preemptive."</p>
			<p>They cruise in silence for a few moments.</p>
			<p>"They're not the enemy, Ken," she says at last. "Not all of them. Some of them are just kids, you know, they're not responsible "</p>
			<p>"That's not the point."</p>
			<p>From some indefinable distance, the faint sound of falling rock.</p>
			<p>"Ken," she buzzes, too softly: she wonders if he can hear her.</p>
			<p>"Yes."</p>
			<p>"Are you looking forward to it?"</p>
			<p>It's been so many years since he's had an excuse to kill someone. And Ken Lubin once made a career out of finding excuses.</p>
			<p>He tweaks his throttle and pulls away.</p>
			<p>Trouble dawns like a sunrise, smearing the darkness ahead.</p>
			<p>"Anyone else supposed to be out here?" Clarke asks. The on-site floods are keyed to wake up when approached, but she and Lubin aren't nearly close enough to have triggered them.</p>
			<p>"Just us," Lubin buzzes.</p>
			<p>The glow is coarse and unmistakable. It spreads laterally, a diffuse false dawn hanging in the void. Two or three dark gaps betray the presence of interposed topography.</p>
			<p>"Stop," Lubin says. Their squids settle down beside a tumbledown outcropping, its jumbled edges reflecting dimly in the haze.</p>
			<p>He studies the schematic on his dashboard. A reflected fingernail of light traces his profile.</p>
			<p>He turns his squid to port. "This way. Keep to the bottom."</p>
			<p>They edge closer to the light, keeping it to starboard. The glow expands, resolves, reveals an impossibility: a lake at the bottom of the ocean. The light shines from beneath its surface; Clarke thinks of a swimming pool at night, lit by submerged spotlights in the walls. Slow extravagant waves, top-heavy things from some low-gravity planet, break into shuddering globules against the near shore. The lake extends beyond the hazy limits of rifter vision.</p>
			<p>It always hits her like a hallucination, although she knows the pedestrian truth: it's just a salt seep, a layer of mineralized water so dense it lies on the bottom of the ocean the way an ocean lies at the bottom of the sky. It's a major selling point to anyone in search of camouflage. The halocline reflects all manner of pings and probes, hides everything beneath as though there were nothing here but soft, deep mud.</p>
			<p>A soft, brief scream of electronics. For the merest instant Clarke thinks she sees a drop of luminous blood on her dashboard. She focuses. Nothing.</p>
			<p>"Did you—?"</p>
			<p>"Yes." Lubin's playing with his controls. "This way." He steers closer to the shores of Impossible Lake. Clarke follows.</p>
			<p>The next time it's unmistakable: a brilliant pinpoint of red light, laser-bright, flickering on and off within the jagged topography of the dashboard display. The squids cry out with each flash.</p>
			<p>A deadman alarm. Somewhere ahead, a rifter's heart has stopped.</p>
			<p>They're cruising out over the lake now, just offshore. Roiling greenish light suffuses Lubin and his mount from below. A hypersaline globule shatters in slow motion against the squid's underside. Light rising through the interface bends in odd ways. It's like looking down through the radium-lit depths of a nuclear waste-storage lagoon. A grid of bright pinpoint suns shine far below that surface, where the surveyors have planted their lamps. The solid substrate beneath is hidden by distance and diffraction.</p>
			<p>The deadman alarm has stabilized to a confidence bubble about forty meters straight ahead. Its ruby icon beats like a heart on the screen. The squids bleat in synch.</p>
			<p>"There," Clarke says. The horizon's absurdly inverted here, darkness overhead, milky light beneath. A dark spot hangs at the distant, fuzzy interface between. It appears to be floating on the surface of the lens.</p>
			<p>Clarke nudges her throttle up a bit.</p>
			<p>"Wait," Lubin buzzes. She looks back over her shoulder.</p>
			<p>"The waves," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>They're smaller here than they were back near the shore, which makes sense since there's no rising substrate to push the peaks above baseline. They're rippling past in irregular spasms, though, not the usual clockwork procession, and now that she traces them back they seem to be radiating out from</p>
			<p>
				<i>Shit</i>
			</p>
			<p>She's close enough to see limbs now, attenuate sticklike things slapping the surface of the lake into a local frenzy. Almost as though the rifter ahead is a poor swimmer, in over his head and panicking</p>
			<p>"He's <i>alive</i>," she buzzes. The deadman icon pulses, contradicting her.</p>
			<p>"No," Lubin says.</p>
			<p>Only fifteen meters away now, the enigma erupts writhing from the surface of the Lake in a nimbus of shredded flesh. Too late, Clarke spots the larger, darker shape thrashing beneath it. Too late, she resolves the mystery: meal, interrupted. The thing that was eating it heads straight for her.</p>
			<p>
				<i>It can't b—</i>
			</p>
			<p>She twists, not quite fast enough. The monster's mouth takes the squid with room to spare. Half a dozen finger-sized teeth splinter against the machine like brittle ceramic. The squid torques in her hands; some sharp-edged metal protuberance smashes into her leg with a thousand kilograms of predatory momentum behind it. Something snaps below the knee. Pain rips through her calf.</p>
			<p>It's been six years. She's forgotten the moves.</p>
			<p>Lubin hasn't. She can hear his squid bearing in, cranked to full throttle. She curls into a ball, grabs the gas billy off her calf in a belated countermeasure. She hears a meaty thud; hydraulics cough. In the next instant a great scaly mass staggers against her, batting her down through the boiling interface.</p>
			<p>Heavy water glows on all sides. The world is fuzzy and whirling. She shakes her head to lock it into focus. The action wavers and bulges overhead, writhing through the shattered refractory surface of Impossible Lake. Lubin must have rammed the monster with his squid. Damage may have been inflicted on both sides—now the squid's corkscrewing down into the lens, riderless and uncontrolled. Lubin hangs in the water facing an opponent twice his size, half of it mouth. If there are eyes, Clarke can't make them out through this wobbling discontinuity.</p>
			<p>She's slowly falling up, she realizes. She scissor-kicks without thinking; her leg screams as something tears it from the inside. She screams too, a ratcheting torn-metal sound. Floaters swarm across her eyes in the wake of the cresting pain. She rises from the lake just as the monster opens its mouth and—</p>
			<p>—<i>holy</i> shit—</p>
			<p>—<i>disconnects</i> its jaw, right at the base, the mouth dropping open way too fast and suddenly it's closed again and Lubin's just <i>gone</i>, nothing to suggest where he went except the memory of blurred motion between one instant and the next.</p>
			<p>She does perhaps the most stupid thing she's ever done in her life. She charges.</p>
			<p>The leviathan turns to face her, more ponderously now, but still with all the time in the world. She kicks with one leg, drags the other like a useless throbbing anchor. The monster's serrated mouth grimaces, a mangled profusion of teeth, way too many still intact. She tries to duck past, to come up under the belly or at least the side but it just wallows there, turning effortlessly to face every clumsy approach.</p>
			<p>And then, through the top of its head, it <i>belches</i>.</p>
			<p>The bubbles do not arise from any natural openings. They erupt through the flesh itself, tearing their own way, splitting the soft skull from within. For a second or two the monster hangs motionless; then it shivers, an electric spasm that seizes the whole body. One-legged, Clarke gets underneath and stabs its belly. She can feel more bubbles erupt inside as the billy discharges, a seismic eruption of flesh.</p>
			<p>The monster convulses, dying. Its jaw drops open like some ludicrous flapping drawbridge. The water seethes with regurgitated flesh.</p>
			<p>A few meters away, the grinning shredded remains of something in a diveskin settle gently onto the surface of Impossible Lake, within a lumpy cloud of its own entrails.</p>
			<p>"You okay?"</p>
			<p>Lubin's at her side. She shakes her head, more in amazement than reply. "My leg " Now, in the aftermath, it hurts even more.</p>
			<p>He probes her injury. She yelps; the vocoder turns it into a mechanical bark. "Your fibula's broken," Lubin reports. "Diveskin didn't tear, at least."</p>
			<p>"The squid got me." She feels a deep burning chill along her leg. She tries to ignore it, gestures at the billy on Lubin's calf. "How many shots did you pump into that fucker?"</p>
			<p>"Three."</p>
			<p>"You were just—<i>gone</i>. It just sucked you right in. You're lucky it didn't bite you in half."</p>
			<p>"Slurp-gun feeding doesn't work if you stop to chew. Interrupts the suction." Lubin pans around. "Wait here."</p>
			<p><i>Like I'm going to go anywhere with this leg.</i> She can already feel it stiffening. She profoundly hopes the squids are still working.</p>
			<p>Lubin fins easily over to the corpse. Its diveskin is torn in a dozen places. Tubes and metal gleam intermittently from the opened thorax. A pair of hagfish squirm sluggishly from the remains.</p>
			<p>"Lopez," he buzzes, reading her shoulder patch.</p>
			<p>Irene Lopez went native six months ago. It's been weeks since anyone's even seen her at the feeding stations.</p>
			<p>"Well," Lubin says. "This answers one question, at least."</p>
			<p>"Not necessarily."</p>
			<p>The monster, still twitching, has settled on the surface of the lake a little ways from Lopez. It wallows only slightly deeper; you'd have to be some kind of rock to sink in brine this dense. Lubin abandons the corpse in favor of the carcass. Clarke joins him.</p>
			<p>"This isn't the same thing that got Gene," he buzzes. "Different teeth. Gigantism in at least two different species of bony fish, within two kilometers of a hydrothermal vent." He reaches into the gaping maw, snaps off a tooth. "Osteoporosis, probably other deficiency diseases as well."</p>
			<p>"Maybe you could save the lecture until you straighten that out for me?" She points to where her squid, listing drunkenly, describes small erratic circles in the overhead darkness. "I don't think I'm gonna be swimming home with this leg."</p>
			<p>He coasts up and wrests the vehicle back under control. "We have to bring it back," he says, riding it down to her. "All of it," with a nod to Lopez's gutted remains.</p>
			<p>"It's not necessarily what you think," she tells him.</p>
			<p>He turns and jackknifes into Impossible Lake, on the trail of his own squid. Clarke watches his rippling image kicking hard, fighting against buoyancy.</p>
			<p>"It's not Behemoth," she buzzes softly. "It'd never survive the trip." Her voice is as calm as such mechanical caricatures can be out here. Her words sound reasonable. Her thoughts are neither. Her thoughts are caught in a loop, a mantra borne of some forlorn subconscious hope that endless repetition might give substance to wishes:</p>
			<p>
				<i>It can't be it can't be it can't be</i>
			</p>
			<p>Here on the sunless slopes of the Mid Atlantic Ridge, facing consequences that have somehow chased her to the very bottom of the world, denial seems the only available option.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
