<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>DisArmor</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-2" id="chapter-2-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">DisArmor</h3>
			<p>Leave Cadavers Here Only</p>
			<p>Unauthorized Disposal Will Be Prosecuted</p>
			<p>N'AmAt/CSIRA Biohazards Statute 4023-A-25-sub5</p>
			<p>It was a three-walled enclosure, open to the sky, south of the 184 just outside Ellsworth. The sign had been sprayed onto the inside of the rear wall; the smart paint cycled through a half dozen languages, holding on each for a few seconds in turn. Clarke and Ouellette stood at the open side, looking in.</p>
			<p>The grated floor was crusted with old lime, cracked and scaling like a dried-up desert lake bed. It was obviously years since it had been replenished. Four bodies lay on that substrate. One had been carefully set to rest with its arms folded across its chest; it was bloated and black, squirming with maggots beneath a nimbus of flies. The other three were desiccated and disarrayed, like clumps of leaves strewn about and abandoned by a strong wind. Limbs and one head were missing.</p>
			<p>Ouellette gestured at the sign. "They actually gave a damn back in the old days. People would end up in jail for burying their loved ones in the back rose garden. Endangering the public health." She grunted, remembering. "They couldn't stop ßehemoth. They couldn't stop the coattail plagues. But at least they could lock up some poor old woman who hadn't wanted to see her dead husband go up in flames."</p>
			<p>Clarke smiled faintly. "People like to feel, what's the word..."</p>
			<p>"Proactive," Ouellette suggested.</p>
			<p>"That's it."</p>
			<p>Ouellette nodded. "To give them their due, though, it <i>was</i> a problem back then. There were a lot more bodies lying around—they were stacked up to your shoulder, even out here. For a while, cholera was killing more people than ßehemoth."</p>
			<p>Clarke eyed the structure. "Why stick it way out here?"</p>
			<p>Ouellette shrugged. "They had them <i>everywhere</i>."</p>
			<p>Clarke stepped into the enclosure. Ouellette put a restraining hand on her shoulder. "You better stick with the older ones. There's no end to the things you could catch off that fresh one."</p>
			<p>Clarke shrugged off the hand. "What about you?"</p>
			<p>"I'm broad-spectrumed up to here. There's not much that can get me."</p>
			<p>The doctor approached the cadaver from upwind, for all the good it did; the light breeze wasn't nearly enough to dispel the stench. Clarke, keeping the greater distance, fought the urge to gag and closed on her own assignment of body parts. She held out her can of steriwrap like a crucifix and pressed the stud; the wizened, one-legged body at her feet glistened as the aerosol laminate hardened on its surface.</p>
			<p>"These are actually in pretty good shape," Ouellette remarked, spraying down her own corpse. "Not so long ago you had to check twice a week if you wanted to find a leg bone connected to a knee bone. Scavengers had a field day." She was spraying it on thick, Clarke noted without surprise. She might be immune to whatever diseases festered in that body, but it still wasn't going to be any treat to carry it around.</p>
			<p>"So what changed?" Clarke asked.</p>
			<p>"No more scavengers."</p>
			<p>Clarke rolled the mummified remains with her foot and sprayed down the other side. The wrap hardened in seconds. She scooped the shrouded body into her arms. It was like carrying a loose bundle of firewood. The steriwrap squeaked faintly against her diveskin.</p>
			<p>"Just feed it into Miri," Ouellette told her, still spraying. "I've already changed the settings."</p>
			<p>The MI's tongue stuck out to starboard. Crinkly silver foil lined its throat. Clarke set the remains on the pallet; the tongue began to retract as soon as the weight had settled. Miri swallowed and closed her mouth.</p>
			<p>"Do I have to do anything?" Clarke called.</p>
			<p>"Nope. She knows the difference between a live body and a dead one."</p>
			<p>A deep, almost subsonic hum sounded briefly from within the MI.</p>
			<p>Ouellette dragged a humanoid cocoon from the compound. Its bloated features had vanished entirely under layers of fibrous plastic, as though Ouellette were some monstrous spider given to gift-wrapping prey. The surface of the shroud was peppered with the bodies of trapped insects, half-embedded. They twitched, dying, against their constraints.</p>
			<p>Clarke reached out to give Ouellette a hand. Something <i>sloshed</i> faintly as the weight shifted between them. Miri opened her mouth—empty again—and belched hot, dusty breath into Clarke's face. The tongue extended as though from some enormous, insatiable baby bird.</p>
			<p>"Can your skin breathe in that thing?" Ouellette asked over Miri's second helping.</p>
			<p>"What, my diveskin?"</p>
			<p>"Your <i>real</i> skin. Can it breathe under all that copolymer?"</p>
			<p>"Copolymer's pretty much what I've worn for the past five years. Hasn't killed me yet."</p>
			<p>"It can't be good for you, though. It was designed to keep you alive in the deep sea; I can't imagine it's healthy to wear it in an atmosphere all the time."</p>
			<p>"Don't see why not." Clarke shrugged. "It breathes, it thermoregulates. Keeps me nice and homeostatic."</p>
			<p>"In <i>water</i>, Laurie. Air has completely different properties. If nothing else, I bet you've got a Vitamin K deficiency."</p>
			<p>"I'm fine," Clarke said neutrally.<i>.</i></p>
			<p>The MI hummed contentedly.</p>
			<p>"If you say so," Ouellette said at last.</p>
			<p>Miri gaped for more.</p>
			<p>They plotted their course by derelict road signs and inboard maps. Ouellette steadfastly refused to go online. Clarke had to wonder at the stops marked along their route. Belfast? Camden? Freeport? They'd barely been dots on a map even before the world ended: why not go to Bangor, just a few klicks to the north? That was where the people would be.</p>
			<p>"Not any more," Ouellette said, raising her voice above a frenetic orchestral seesaw she’d attributed to some Russian maniac called <i>Prokofiev</i>.</p>
			<p>"Why not?"</p>
			<p>"<i>Cities are the graveyard of Mankind</i>." It had the ring of a quote. "There was this threshold, I don't remember what it was exactly. Some magic number of people per hectare. Any urban center was way up on the wrong side of it. Something like ßehemoth, set loose in a high-density urban area—not to mention all the ancillary pathogens that hitched a ride in its wake—it takes off like a brush fire. One person sneezes, a hundred get sick. Germs love crowds."</p>
			<p>"But small towns were okay?"</p>
			<p>"Well, not <i>okay</i>, obviously. But things didn't spread as fast—the spread's still going on, actually. The towns were small and seasonal, and the areas in between were pretty much owned by the whitecaps." Ouellette gestured at the withering foliage scrolling past the windshield. "This was all privately owned. Rich old rs and Ks who didn't mingle, had good medical. They're gone now too, of course."</p>
			<p><i>Gone to Atlantis</i>, Clarke surmised. <i>Some of them, anyway.</i></p>
			<p>"So the big cities had exactly two choices when Firewitch came calling," Ouellette continued. "They could either throw up the barricades and the static-field generators, or they could implode. A lot of them couldn't afford generators, so they imploded by default. I haven't been to Bangor since fifty-three. For all I know they never even cleaned up the bodies."</p>
			<p>They got their first live customers at Bucksport.</p>
			<p>They pulled off the main drag at about two <abbr>a.m.</abbr>, next to a Red Cross Calvin cycler with a worrisome yellow telltale winking from its panel. Ouellette examined it by the light of an obsolete billboard, running on stored solar, that worked ceaselessly to sell them on the benefits of smart cloth and dietary proglottids.</p>
			<p>"Needs restocking." She climbed back into Miri and called up a menu.</p>
			<p>"I thought they got everything they needed from the air," Clarke said. That's what photosynthesis <i>was</i>, after all—she'd been amazed to discover how many complex molecules were nothing more than various combinations of nitrogen, carbon, and oh-two.</p>
			<p>"Not trace elements." Ouellette grabbed a cellulose cartridge, its compartments filled with red and ochre paste, from the dispensing slot. "This one's low on iron and potassium."</p>
			<p>The billboard was still hawking its nonexistent wares the next morning when Clarke squeezed herself into Miri's toilet cubicle. When she came out again, two silhouettes were plastered against the windshield.</p>
			<p>She stepped carefully over Ouellette and climbed up between the bucket seats. Two Hindian boys—one maybe six, the other verging on adolescence—stared in at her. She leaned forward and stared back. Two pairs of dark eyes widened in surprise; the younger boy emitted a tiny yelp. The next second both had scampered away.</p>
			<p>"It's your eyes," Ouellette said behind her.</p>
			<p>Clarke turned. The doctor was sitting up, hugging the back of the driver's seat from behind. She blinked, gummy-eyed in the morning light.</p>
			<p>"And the suit," she continued. "Seriously, Laurie, you look like some kind of cut-rate zombie in that get-up." She reached behind her and tapped the locker in the rear wall. "You could always borrow something of mine."</p>
			<p>She was getting used to her alias. Ouellette's unsolicited advice was another matter.</p>
			<p>A half-dozen people were already lined up when they climbed out into daylight. Ouellette smiled at them as she strode around to the back of the vehicle and lifted the awning. Clarke followed, still sleepy; Miri's mouths opened as she passed. The throat's silver lining had withdrawn, exposing a grid of sensor heads studding the cylindrical wall behind.</p>
			<p>Icons and telltales flickered across the panel on Miri's backside. Ouellette played them with absent-minded expertise, her eyes on the accumulating patients. "Everybody's standing, nobody's bleeding. And no obvious cases of ßehemoth. Good start."</p>
			<p>Half a block behind the billboard, the two children Clarke had surprised pulled a middle-aged woman into sight around the corner of a long-defunct restaurant. She moved at her own pace, resisting her children as though they were eager dogs straining to slip the leash. Further down the road, picking his way across scattered debris and asphalt-cracking clumps of grass, a man limped forward on a cane.</p>
			<p>"We just got here," Clarke murmured.</p>
			<p>"Yup. Usually I blast the music for a couple of minutes, just to let people know. But a lot of the time it isn't even necessary."</p>
			<p>Clarke panned the street. A dozen now, at least. "Somebody really spread the word."</p>
			<p>"And that," Ouellette told her, "is how we're going to win."</p>
			<p>Bucksport was one of Ouellette's regular stops. The locals knew her, or at least knew of her. She knew them, and ministered unto them as she always had, her omnipresent music playing softly in the background. The sick and the injured passed like boluses of food through Miri's humming depths; sometimes the passage would take only moments, and Ouellette would be waiting at the other side with a derm or injection, or some viral countervector to be snorted like an antique alkaloid. Other times the patients would linger inside while the MI knitted their bones back together, or spliced torn ligaments, or burned out malignancies with bursts of focused microwaves. Occasionally the problem was so obvious that Ouellette could diagnose it with a glance, and cure it with a shot and a word of advice.</p>
			<p>Clarke helped when she could, which was rarely; Miri maintained its own inventories, and Ouellette had little need of Clarke's limited expertise in fish bites. Ouellette taught her some basics on the fly and let her triage the line-up. Even that wasn't entirely successful. The rules were easy enough but some of the younger ferals recoiled at Clarke's appearance: the strange black skin that seemed to <i>ripple</i> when you weren't quite looking; the little outcroppings of machinery from flesh; the glassy, featureless eyes that both looked at you and didn't, that belonged not so much to a human being as to some unconvincing robot imposter.</p>
			<p>Eventually Clarke contented herself with the adults, and gave them vital tips while they waited their turn. There was, after all, more to dispense than medical attention. Now, there were instructions.</p>
			<p>Now, there was a plan.</p>
			<p>Wait for the missiles, she told them. Watch the starbursts; track the fragments as they fall, find them on the ground. This is what you look for; this is what it is. Take whatever samples you can—soil in mason jars, rags swept through aerosol clouds at ground zero, anything. A teaspoon-full might be enough. A tin can, half full, could be a windfall. Whatever you can get, however you can get it.</p>
			<p>Be fast: the lifters may be coming. Grab what you can and run. Get away from the impact zone, hide from the flamethrowers any way you can. Tell others, tell everyone; spread the word and the method. But no radio. No networks, no fiberop, no wireless. The ether will fuck you up the ass if you let it; trust only to word-of-mouth.</p>
			<p>Find us at Freeport, or Rumford, or places between. Come back to us: bring us what you have.</p>
			<p>There may be hope.</p>
			<p>Augusta made her skin crawl. Literally.</p>
			<p>They approached from the east, just before midnight, along the 202. Taka took them off the main drag in favor of a gravel road a short ways down the gentle slope of the Kennebec River valley. They parked on a ridge that overlooked the shallow topography below.</p>
			<p>Everything this side of the river had been abandoned; almost everything on the far side had been, too. The bright core that remained huddled amidst a diffuse spread of dark, empty ruins left over from the good old days. Its nimbus reflected off the cloud bank overhead, turned the whole tableau to grainy, high-contrast black-and-white.</p>
			<p>Faint gooseflesh rippled along Clarke's arms and nape. Even her diveskin seemed to be, well, <i>shivering</i>, a sensation so subtle it hovered on the threshold of imagination.</p>
			<p>"Feel that?" Ouellette said.</p>
			<p>Clarke nodded.</p>
			<p>"Static-field generator. We're just on the outer edge of the field."</p>
			<p>"So it gets worse inside?"</p>
			<p>"Not <i>right</i> inside, of course. The field's directed outward. But yeah, the closer you get to the perimeter, the more your hair stands on end. Once you're inside you don't feel it. Not that way, at least. There are other effects."</p>
			<p>"Like what?"</p>
			<p>"Tumors." Ouellette shrugged. "Better than the alternative, I guess."</p>
			<p>A cheek-to-jowl cluster of lights and architecture rose against the dark, its outlines suggesting the contours of a crude, pixelated dome. The new Augusta was obviously squeezing every cubic centimeter it could out of the safe zone. "We going in there?" Clarke asked.</p>
			<p>Ouellette shook her head. "They don't need us."</p>
			<p>"<i>Can</i> we go in there?" For all its lost stature, Augusta must still have portals into the pipe. Lubin might have been better off sticking with them after all.</p>
			<p>"You mean, like shore leave? Stop by on our way through for some VR and a hot whirlpool?" The doctor laughed softly. "Doesn't work that way. They'd probably let us in if there were some kind of emergency, but everybody kind of sticks to their own these days. Miri's out of Boston."</p>
			<p>"So you could get into Boston." Even better.</p>
			<p>"It is kind of beautiful at night, though," Ouellette remarked. "For all its carcinogenic properties. Almost like the northern lights."</p>
			<p>Clarke watched her without speaking.</p>
			<p>"Don't you think?"</p>
			<p>She decided not to push it. "Night looks pretty much like day to me. Just not as much color."</p>
			<p>"Right. The eyes." Ouellette gave her a sideways look. "Don't you ever get tired of daylight all the time?"</p>
			<p>"Not really."</p>
			<p>"You should try taking them out now and then, just for a change. Sometimes when you see too much, you miss a lot."</p>
			<p>Clarke smiled. "You sound like a fortune cookie."</p>
			<p>Ouellette shrugged. "It wouldn't hurt your bedside manner, either. Patients might relate to you better without the affect, you know?"</p>
			<p>"There's not much I can do for your patients anyway."</p>
			<p>"Oh, that's not—"</p>
			<p>"And if there is," Clarke continued, her voice conspicuously neutral, "then they can accept my help without dictating my wardrobe."</p>
			<p>"Rrrright," Ouellette said after a moment. "Sorry."</p>
			<p>They sat in silence for a while. Finally Ouellette threw Miri back into gear and cued her music— an adrenaline discord of saxophone and electric percussion at serious odds with her usual tastes.</p>
			<p>"We're not stopping here?" Clarke asked.</p>
			<p>"Goosebumps keep me awake. Probably not all that good for Miri either. I just thought you'd enjoy the view, is all."</p>
			<p>They headed further along the road. The prickling of Clarke's skin faded in moments.</p>
			<p>Ouellette kept driving. The music segued into a spoken interlude with musical accompaniment—some story about a hare who’d lost his spectacles, whatever those were. "What <i>is</i> this?" Clarke asked.</p>
			<p>"TwenCen stuff. I can turn it off if you—"</p>
			<p>"No. That’s fine."</p>
			<p>Ouellette killed it anyway. Miri drove on in silence.</p>
			<p>"We could stop anytime," Clarke said after a few minutes.</p>
			<p>"A little further. It's dangerous around the cities."</p>
			<p>"I thought we were past the field."</p>
			<p>"Not cancer. People." Ouellette tripped the autopilot and sat back in the bucket seat. "They tend to hang around just outside the claves and get envious."</p>
			<p>"Miri can't handle them?"</p>
			<p>"Miri can slice and dice them a dozen ways to Sunday. I'd just as soon avoid the confrontation."</p>
			<p>Clarke shook her head. "I can't believe Augusta wouldn't have let us in."</p>
			<p>"I told you. The claves keep to themselves."</p>
			<p>"Then why even bother sending you out? If everyone up here is so bloody self-centered, why help out the wildlands in the first place?"</p>
			<p>Ouellette snorted softly. "Where've you <i>been</i> for the past five years?" She held up her hand: "Stupid question. We're not out here for altruism, Laurie. The MI fleet, the salt licks—"</p>
			<p>"Salt licks?"</p>
			<p>"Feeding stations. It's all just to keep the ferals from storming the barricades. If we bring them a few morsels, maybe they won't be quite so motivated to bring ßehemoth into our own backyards."</p>
			<p>It made the usual sense, Clarke had to admit. And yet...</p>
			<p>"No. They wouldn't send their best and brightest out for a lousy crowd-control assignment."</p>
			<p>"You got that right."</p>
			<p>"Yeah, but <i>you</i>—"</p>
			<p>"<i>Me</i>? <i>I'm</i> the best and the brightest?" Ouellette slapped her forehead. "What in the name of all that's living gave you <i>that</i> idea?"</p>
			<p>"I saw you work"</p>
			<p>"You saw me take orders from a machine without screwing up too much. A few day's training, I could teach you to do as well for most of these cases."</p>
			<p>"That's not what I meant. I've seen doctors in action before, Taka. You're different. You—" One of Ouellette's own phrases popped into her head: <i>bedside manner</i>.</p>
			<p>"You care," she finished simply.</p>
			<p>"Ah." Ouellette said. And then, looking straight ahead: "Don't confuse compassion with competence, Laurie. It's dangerous."</p>
			<p>Clarke studied her. "Dangerous. That's a strange word to use."</p>
			<p>"In my profession, competence doesn't kill people," Ouellette said. "Compassion can."</p>
			<p>"You killed someone?"</p>
			<p>"Hard to tell. That's the thing about incompetence. It's not nearly so clear-cut as deliberate malice."</p>
			<p>"How many?" Clarke asked.</p>
			<p>Ouellette looked at her. "Are you keeping score?"</p>
			<p>"No. Sorry." Clarke looked away.</p>
			<p><i>But if I was</i>, she thought, <i>I'd blow you out of the water</i>. She knew it wasn't a fair comparison. One death, she supposed, could be a greater burden than a thousand if it mattered enough to you. If you bothered to get involved.</p>
			<p>If you had compassion.</p>
			<p>Finally they pulled into a remote clearing further up the slope. Ouellette folded down her pallet and turned in with a few monosyllables. Clarke sat unmoving in her seat, watching the gray-on-gray clarity of the nightscape beyond the windshield: gray meadow grasses, charcoal ranks of spindly conifer, scabby outcroppings of worn bedrock. Overcast, tissue-paper sky.</p>
			<p>From behind, faint snores.</p>
			<p>She fished behind her seat and snagged her backpack. The eyecap vial had settled to the very bottom, a victim of chronic inattention. She held it in her hand for a long time before popping it open.</p>
			<p>Each eyecap covered the entire visible cornea, and then some. Suction tugged at her eyeballs as she pulled them off; they broke free with a soft popping sound.</p>
			<p>It was as if her eyes, not just their coverings, had been pulled out. It was like going blind. It was like being in the deep sea, far from any light.</p>
			<p>It wasn't altogether unpleasant.</p>
			<p>At first there was nothing, anywhere; irises grow lazy when photocollagen does all their heavy lifting. After a while, though, they remembered to dilate. A swathe of dark gray brightened the void directly ahead: faint nocturnal light, through the windshield.</p>
			<p>She felt her way out of the MI and leaned against its flank. She let the door hiss shut as softly as possible. The night air cooled her face and hands.</p>
			<p>Diffuse brightness registered at the corner of her eye, fading every time she focused on it. Before long she could tell the sky from the treeline. Dim, roiling gray over serrated shadow; it seemed marginally brighter to the east.</p>
			<p>She wandered a few meters and looked back: Miri's smooth, startling edges almost <i>glimmered</i> against this fractal landscape. To the west, through a break in the cloud, she saw stars.</p>
			<p>She walked.</p>
			<p>She tripped over roots and holes half a dozen times, for want of illumination. But the color scheme was pretty much the same as that served up by her eyecaps, gray on gray on black. The only difference was that contrast and brightness were cranked way down.</p>
			<p>When the sky began brightening to the east she saw that she'd been climbing up a denuded gravelly hillside populated by stumps, an old clear-cut that had never recovered. It must have been like this long before ßehemoth had arrived on the scene.</p>
			<p><i>Everything's dying</i>, she'd said.</p>
			<p>And Ouellette had replied <i>That was happening anyway</i>...</p>
			<p>Clarke looked down the way she'd come. Miri sat like a toy on the edge of what must have been an old logging road. Brown trees lined the far side of the road, and the hill she stood on to either side; they'd been razored away down the swath she'd just climbed.</p>
			<p>Suddenly she had a shadow. It stretched down the slope like the outline of a murdered giant. She turned: a fluorescent red sun was just cresting the hill. Ribbed clouds above glowed radioactive salmon. They reminded Clarke of wave-sculpted corrugations on a sandy seabed, but she couldn't ever remember seeing colors so intense.</p>
			<p><i>Losing your sight every night might not be so bad</i>, she reflected, <i>if this is how you get it back in the morning</i>.</p>
			<p>The moment passed, of course. The sun had only had a few degrees to work with, a narrow gap of clear distant sky between the land below and the clouds overhead. Within a few minutes it had risen behind a thick bank of stratus, faded to a pale bright patch in an expanse of featureless gray.</p>
			<p><i>Alyx</i>, she thought.</p>
			<p>Ouellette would be up soon, steeling herself for another pointless day spent in the service of the greater good. Making a difference that made no difference.</p>
			<p><i>Maybe not the greater good</i>, Clarke thought. <i>Maybe, the greater</i> need.</p>
			<p>She started down the hill. Ouellette was climbing into daylight by the time Clarke reached the road. She blinked against the gray morning, and blinked again when she saw the rifter's naked eyes.</p>
			<p>"You said you could teach me," Clarke said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
