<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Portrait of the Sadist as a Team Player</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="division-1" id="chapter-1-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Portrait of the Sadist as a Team Player</h3>
			<p>Alice Jovellanos's definition of <i>apology</i> was a little unconventional.</p>
			<p><i>Achilles,</i> she had begun, <i>you can be such a raging idiot sometimes I just don't believe it.</i></p>
			<p>He'd never made a hard copy. He hadn't needed to. He was a 'lawbreaker, occipital cortex stuck in permanent overdrive, pattern-matching and correlative skills verging on the autistic. He had scrolled her letter once down his inlays, watched it vanish, and reread it a hundred times since, every pixel crisp and immutable in perfect recollection.</p>
			<p>Now he sat still as stone, waiting for her. Sudbury's ever-dimming nightscape splashed haphazard patches of light across the walls of his apartment. There were too many lines-of-sight to nearby buildings, he noted. He would have to blank the windows before she arrived.</p>
			<p><i>You know what I was risking coming clean with you yesterday,</i> Alice had dictated.<i>You know what I'm risking sending this to you now—it'll autowipe, but there's</i> nothing <i>these assholes can't scan if they feel like it. That's part of the problem, that's why I'm taking this huge risk in the first place...</i></p>
			<p><i>I heard what you said about trust and betrayal, and maybe some of it rings a bit more true than I'd like. But don't you see there was no point in asking you beforehand? As long as Guilt Trip was running the show, you were incapable of making your own decision. You keep insisting that's wrong, you go on about all the life-and-death decisions you make and the thousands of variables you juggle but Achilles my dear, whoever told you that</i> free will <i>was just some complicated algorithm for you to follow?</i></p>
			<p><i>I know you don't want to be corrupted. But maybe a decent, honest human being is his own safeguard, did you ever think of that? Maybe you don't have to let them turn you into one big conditioned reflex. Maybe you just</i> want <i>them to, because then it's not really your responsibility, is it? It's so easy to never have to make your own decisions. Addictive, even. Maybe you even got hooked on it, and you're going through a little bit of withdrawal now.</i></p>
			<p>She'd had such faith in him. She still did; she was on her way here right now, not suspecting a thing.Surveillance-free accomodation wasn't cheap, but any senior 'lawbreaker could afford the Privacy Plus brand name and then some. The security in his building was airtight, ruthless, and utterly devoid of long-term memory. Once a visitor cleared, there would be no record of their comings and goings.</p>
			<p><i>Anyhow, what they stole, we gave back. And I'm going to tell you exactly how we did that, on the premise, you know, ignorance breeds fear and all that. You know about the Minsky receptors in your frontal lobes, and how all those nasty little guilt transmitters bind to them, and how you perceive that as</i> conscience <i>. They made Guilt Trip by tweaking a bunch of behavior-modification genes snipped from parasites; the guiltier you feel, the more Trip gets pumped into your brain. It binds to the transmitters, which changes their shape and basically clogs your motor pathways so you can't move.</i></p>
			<p><i>Anyway, Spartacus is basically a guilt</i> analog <i>. It's got the same active sites, so it binds to the Trip, but the overall conformation is slightly different so it doesn't actually do anything except clog up the Minsky receptors. Also it takes longer to break down than regular guilt, so it reaches higher concentrations in the brain. Eventually it overwhelms the active sites through sheer numbers.</i></p>
			<p>He remembered splinters from an antique hardwood floor, tearing his face. He remembered lying in the dark, the chair he was tied to toppled on its side, while Ken Lubin's voice wondered from somewhere nearby: "What about side effects? Baseline guilt, for example?"</p>
			<p>And in that instant, bound and bleeding, Achilles Desjardins had seen his destiny.</p>
			<p>Spartacus wasn't content to simply unlock the chains that the Trip had forged. If it had been, there might have been hope. He would have had to fall back on good old-fashioned shame to control his inclinations, certainly. He would have stayed depraved at heart, as he'd always been. But Achilles Desjardins had never been one to let his heart out unsupervised anyway. He could have coped, even out of a job, even up on charges. He could have coped.</p>
			<p>But Spartacus didn't know when to quit. Conscience was a molecule like any other—and with no free receptor sites to bind onto, it might as well be neutral saline for all the effect it had. Desjardins was headed for a whole new destination, a place he'd never been before. A place without guilt or shame or remorse, a place without conscience in <i>any</i> form.</p>
			<p>Alice hadn't mentioned any of that when she'd spilled her pixellated heart across his in-box. She'd only assured him how safe it all was. <i>That's the real beauty of it, Killjoy; both your natural transmitters and the Trip itself are still being produced normally, so a test that keys on either of 'em comes up clean. Even a test looking for the complexed form will pass muster, since the baseline complex is still floating around—it just can't find any free receptor sites to latch onto. So you're safe. Honestly. The bloodhounds won't be a problem.</i></p>
			<p>Safe. She'd had no idea what kind of thing looked out from behind his eyes. She should have known better. Even children know the simple truth: monsters live everywhere, even inside. <i>Especially</i> inside.</p>
			<p>
				<i>I wouldn't put you at risk, Achilles, believe me. You mean too—you're too much of a friend for me to fuck around like that.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She loved him, of course. He had never really admitted it before—some pipsqueak inner voice might have whispered <i>I think she kind of, maybe</i> before three decades of self-loathing squashed it flat: <i>What a fucking egotist. As if anyone would want anything to do with an enculé like</i> you <i>...</i></p>
			<p>She'd never explicitly propositioned him—in her own way she was as insecure as he was, for all her bluster—but the signs were there in hindsight: her good-natured interference every time a woman appeared in his life, her endless social overtures, the nickname <i>Killjoy</i>—ostensibly because of his reticence to go out, but more likely because of his reticence to <i>put</i> out. It was all so obvious now. Freed from guilt, freed from shame, his vision had sharpened to crystal perfection.</p>
			<p><i>Anyway, there you go. I've stuck my neck out for you, and what happens now is pretty much up to you. If you turn me in, though, know this:</i> you're <i>the one making that decision. However you rationalize it, you won't be able to blame some stupid longchain molecule. It'll be you all the way, your own free will.</i></p>
			<p>He hadn't turned her in. It must have been some fortuitous balance of conflicting molecules: those that would have compelled betrayal weakening in his head, those that spoke to loyalty among friends not yet snuffed out. In hindsight, it had been a very lucky break..</p>
			<p><i>So</i> use <i>it, and think about all the things you've done and why, and ask yourself if you're really so morally rudderless that you couldn't have made all those tough decisions without enslaving yourself to a bunch of despots. I think you could have, Achilles. You never needed their ball and chain to be a decent human being. I really believe that. I'm gambling everything on it.</i></p>
			<p>He checked his watch.</p>
			<p><i>You know where I am</i>.<i>You know what your options are. Join me or stab me. Your choice.</i></p>
			<p>He stood, and crossed to the windows. He blanked the panes.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Love, Alice.</i>
			</p>
			<p>The doorbell chimed.</p>
			<p>Every part of her was vulnerable. She looked up at him, her face hopeful, her almond eyes cautious. One corner of her mouth pulled back in a tentative, slightly rueful grin.</p>
			<p>Desjardins stood aside, took a deep, quiet breath as she passed. Her scent was innocent and floral, but there were molecules in that mix working below the threshold of conscious awareness. She wasn't stupid; she knew he wasn't either. She must realise he'd peg his incipient arousal on pheromones she hadn't worn in his presence for years.</p>
			<p>Her hopes <i>must</i> be up.</p>
			<p>He'd done his best to raise them, without being too obvious. He'd affected a gradual thawing in his demeaner over the previous few days, a growing, almost reluctant warmth. He'd stood at her side as Clarke and Lubin disappeared into traffic, en route to their own private revolution; Desjardins had let his arm bump against Alice's, and linger. After a few moments of that casual contact she'd looked up at him, a bit hesitantly, and he'd rewarded her with a shrug and a smile.</p>
			<p>She'd always had his friendship, until she'd betrayed him. She'd always longed for more. It was an incapacitating mix. Desjardins had been able to disarm her with the merest chance of reconciliation.</p>
			<p>Now she brushed past, closer than strictly necessary, her ponytail swishing gently against her nape. Mandelbrot appeared in the hall and slithered around her ankles like a furry boa. Alice reached down to scritch the cat's ears. Mandelbrot hesitated, perhaps wondering whether to play hard to get, then evidently figured fuck <i>it</i> and let out a purr.</p>
			<p>Desjardins directed Alice to the bowl of goofballs on the coffee table. Alice pursed her lips. "These are safe?" Some of the chemicals that senior 'lawbreakers kept in their systems could provoke nasty interactions with the most innocuous recreationals, and Jovellanos had only just gotten her shots.</p>
			<p>"I doubt they're any worse than the ways you've already fucked with the palette," Desjardins said.</p>
			<p>Her face fell. A twinge of remorse flickered in Desjardins's throat. He swallowed, absurdly grateful for the feeling. "Just don't mix them with axotropes," he added, more gently.</p>
			<p>"Thanks." She took the olive branch with the drug, popped a cherry-red marble into her mouth. Desjardins could see her bracing herself.</p>
			<p>"I was afraid you were never going to talk to me again," she said softly.</p>
			<p>If her hair had been any finer it would be synthetic.</p>
			<p>"It would have served you right." He let the words hang between them. He imagined knotting that jet-black ponytail around his fist. He imagined suspending her by it, letting her feet kick just off the floor...</p>
			<p>
				<i>No. Stop it.</i>
			</p>
			<p>"But I think I understand why you did it," he said at last, letting her off the hook.</p>
			<p>"Really?"</p>
			<p>"I think so. You had a lot of nerve." He took a breath. "But you had a lot of faith in me, too. You wouldn't have done it otherwise. I guess that counts for something."</p>
			<p>It was as though she'd been holding her breath since she arrived, and only let it out now that her sentence had been read aloud: Conditional discharge. <i>She bought it</i>, Desjardins thought. <i>She thinks there's hope</i>—</p>
			<p>—while another part of him, diminished but defiant, insisted <i>Why does she have to be wrong?</i></p>
			<p>He brushed her cheek with his palm, could just barely hear the the soft, quick intake of breath his touch provoked. He blinked against the fleeting image of a backhanded blow across that sweet, unsuspecting face. "You have a lot more faith in me than I do, Alice. I don't know how warranted it is."</p>
			<p>"They stole your freedom to choose. I only gave it back to you."</p>
			<p>"You stole my conscience. How am I <i>supposed</i> to choose?"</p>
			<p>"With your <i>mind</i>, Killjoy. With that brilliant, beautiful mind. Not some gut-instinct emotion that's done more harm than good for the past couple million years."</p>
			<p>He sank onto the sofa, a small, sudden pit opening in his stomach. "I'd hoped it was a side-effect," he said softly.</p>
			<p>She sat beside him. "What do you mean?"</p>
			<p>"You know." Desjardins shook his head. "People never think things through. I kind of hoped you and your buddies just—hadn't worked out the ramifications, you know? You were just trying to subvert the Trip, and the whole conscience thing was a—a misstep. Unforeseen. But I guess not."</p>
			<p>She put her hand on his knee. "Why would you <i>hope</i> that?"</p>
			<p>"I'm not really sure." He barked a soft laugh. "I guess I thought, if you didn't <i>know</i> you were—I mean, if you do something by accident that's one thing, but if you <i>deliberately</i> set out to make a bunch of psychopaths—"</p>
			<p>"We're not making psychopaths, Achilles. We're freeing people from conscience."</p>
			<p>"What's the difference?"</p>
			<p>"You can still <i>feel</i>. Your amygdala still works. Your dopamine and serotonin levels are normal. You're capable of long-term planning, you're not a slave to your impulses. Spartacus doesn't change any of that."</p>
			<p>"Is that what you think."</p>
			<p>"You really think all the assholes in the world are clinical?"</p>
			<p>"Maybe not. But I bet all the clinicals in the world are assholes."</p>
			<p>"You're not," she said.</p>
			<p>She stared at him with serious, dark eyes. He couldn't stop smelling her. He wanted to kiss her. He wanted to hug her. He wanted to gut her like a fish and put her head on a stick.</p>
			<p>He gritted his teeth and kept silent.</p>
			<p>"Ever hear of the trolly paradox?" Alice said after a moment.</p>
			<p>Desjardins shook his head.</p>
			<p>"Six people on a runaway train, headed off a cliff. The only way to save them is switch the train to another track. Except there's someone else standing on that track, and he won't be able to get out of the way before the train squashes him. Do you reroute?"</p>
			<p>"Of course." It was the greater good at its most simplistic.</p>
			<p>"Now say you <i>can't</i> reroute the train, but you can <i>stop</i> it by pushing someone into its path. Do you?"</p>
			<p>"Sure," he said immediately.</p>
			<p>"I did that for you," Alice pronounced.</p>
			<p>"Did what?"</p>
			<p>"Most people don't accept the equivalence. They think it's right to reroute the train, but wrong to push someone in front of it. Even though it's exactly the same death, for exactly the same number of lives saved."</p>
			<p>He grunted.</p>
			<p>"Conscience isn't <i>rational</i>, Achilles. You know what parts of your brain light up when you make a moral decision? I'll tell you: the medial frontal gyrus. The posterior cingulate gyrus. The angular gyrus. All—"</p>
			<p>"Emotional centers," Desjardins cut in.</p>
			<p>"Damn right. The frontal lobes don't spark at all. And even people who recognise the logical equivalence of those scenarios have to really <i>work</i> at it. It just <i>feels</i> wrong to push someone to their death, even for the same net gain of lives. The brain has to wrestle with all this stupid, unfounded guilt. It takes longer to act, longer to reach critical decisions, and when all's said and done it's less likely to make the <i>right</i> decion. That's what <i>conscience</i> is, Killjoy. It's like rape or greed or kin selection—it served its purpose a few million years ago, but it's been bad news ever since we stopped merely <i>surviving</i> our environment and started <i>dominating</i> it instead."</p>
			<p><i>You rehearsed that</i>, Desjardins thought.</p>
			<p>He allowed himself a small smile. "There's a bit more to people than guilt and intellect, my dear. Maybe guilt doesn't just hobble the <i>mind</i>, did you ever think of that? Maybe it hobbles other things as well."</p>
			<p>"Like what?"</p>
			<p>"Well, just for example—" he paused, pretending to cast around for inspiration— "how do you know I'm not some kind of crazed serial killer? How do you know I'm not psychotic, or suicidal, or, or into torture, say?"</p>
			<p>"I'd know," Alice said simply.</p>
			<p>"You think sex killers walk around with signs on their foreheads?"</p>
			<p>She squeezed his thigh. "I think that I've known you for a whole long time, and I think there's no such thing as a perfect act. If someone was that full of hate, they'd slip up eventually. But you—well, I've never heard of a monster who respected women so much he refused to even fuck them. And by the way, you might want to reconsider that particular position. Just a thought."</p>
			<p>Desjardins shook his head. "You've got it all worked out, haven't you?"</p>
			<p>"Completely. And I've got oodles of patience."</p>
			<p>"Good. Now you can use some of it." He stood and smiled down at her. "I've gotta go to the bathroom for a minute. Make yourself at home."</p>
			<p>She smiled back. "I will indeed. Take your time."</p>
			<p>He locked the door, leaned across the sink and stared hard into the mirror. His reflection stared back, furious.</p>
			<p>
				<i>She betrayed you. She turned you into this.</i>
			</p>
			<p>He liked her. He loved her. Alice Jovellanos had been his loyal friend for years. Desjardins hung onto that as best he could.</p>
			<p><i>She did it on</i> purpose <i>.</i></p>
			<p>No. <i>They</i> had done in on purpose.</p>
			<p>Because Alice hadn't acted alone. She was damn smart, but she hadn't come up with Spartacus all by herself. She had friends, she'd admitted as much: <i>We're kinda political, in a ragtag kind of way</i>, she'd said when she first broke the news of his—his <i>emancipation</i>.</p>
			<p>He could feel the chains in his head crumbling to rust. He could feel his own depravity tugging on those corroded links, and grinning. He searched himself for some hint of the regret he'd felt just a few minutes ago—he'd hurt Alice's feelings, and he'd felt bad about it. He could still do that. He could still feel remorse, or something like it, if he only tried.</p>
			<p><i>You're not a slave to your impulses</i>, she'd said.</p>
			<p>That was true, as far as it went. He could restrain himself if he wanted to. But that was the nature of his predicament: he was starting to realise that he didn't <i>want</i> to.</p>
			<p>"Hey, Killjoy?" Alice called from down the hall.</p>
			<p><i>Shut up!</i> <i>SHUT UP!</i>"Yeah?"</p>
			<p>"Mandelbrot's demanding dinner and his feeder's empty. Didn't you keep the kibble under the sink?"</p>
			<p>"Not any more. She figured out how to break into the cupboards."</p>
			<p>"Then wh—"</p>
			<p>"Bedroom closet."</p>
			<p>Her footsteps passed on the other side of the door, Mandelbrot vocally urging them on.</p>
			<p>
				<i>On purpose.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Alice had infected him ahead of schedule, to clear his mind for the fight against ßehemoth—and perhaps for more personal reasons, conscious or otherwise. But her friends had set their sights a lot higher than Achilles Desjardins; they were out to liberate every 'lawbreaker on the planet. Lubin had summed it up, there in the darkness two weeks ago: "Only a few thousand people with their hands on all the world's kill switches and you've turned them all into clinical sociopaths..."</p>
			<p>Desjardins wondered if Alice would have tried her semantic arguments with <i>Lubin</i>. If <i>she</i> had been tied to that chair, blind, pissing her pants in fear for her life while that murderous cipher paced around her in the darkness, would she have presumed to lecture him on serotonin levels and the cingulate gyrus?</p>
			<p>She might have, at that. After all, she and her friends were <i>political</i>—<i>in a ragtag kinda way</i>—and politics made you stupid. It made you think that Human decency was some kind of Platonic ideal, a moral calculus you could derive from first principals. Don't waste your time with basic biology. Don't worry about the fate of altruists in Darwin's Universe. People are <i>different</i>, people are <i>special</i>, people are <i>moral agents</i>. That's what you got when you spent too much time writing manifestos, and not enough time looking in the mirror.</p>
			<p>Achilles Desjardins was only the first of a new breed. Before long there would be others, as powerful as he and as unconstrained. Maybe there already were. Alice hadn't told him any details. He didn't know how far the ambitions of the Spartacus Society had progressed. He didn't know what other franchises were being seeded, or what the incubation period was. He only knew that sooner or later, he would have competition.</p>
			<p>Unless he acted now, while he still had the advantage.</p>
			<p>Mandelbrot was still yowling in the bedroom, evidently dissatisfied with the quality of the hired help. Desjardins couldn't blame her; Alice had had more than enough time to retrieve the kibble, bring it back to the kitchen, and—</p>
			<p>—<i>in the bedroom</i>, he realised.</p>
			<p><i>Well</i>, he thought after a moment. <i>I guess that settles it.</i></p>
			<p>Suddenly, the face in the mirror was very calm. It did not move, but it seemed to be speaking to him all the same. You're <i>not political</i>, it told him. <i>You're mechanical. Nature programmed you one way, CSIRA programmed you another, Alice came along and rewired you for something else. None of it is you, and all of it is you. And none of it was your choice. None of it was your responsibility.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>She did this to you. That cunt. That stumpfuck. Whatever happens now is not your fault.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>It's hers.</i>
			</p>
			<p>He unlocked the door and walked down the hall to the bedroom. Live telltales twinkled across the sensorium on his pillow. His feedback suit lay across the bed like a shed skin. Alice Jovellanos stood shaking at the foot of the bed, lifting the headset from her skull. Her face was beautiful and bloodless.</p>
			<p>She would not have been able to mistake the victim in that virtual dungeon for anyone else. Desjardins had tuned the specs to three decimal places.</p>
			<p>Mandelbrot immediately gave up on Alice and began head-butting Desjardins, purring loudly. Desjardins ignored her.</p>
			<p>"I need some technical info," he said, almost apologetically. "And some details on your friends. I was actually hoping to sweet-talk it out of you, though." He gestured at the sensorium, savoring the horror on her face. "Guess I forgot to put that stuff away."</p>
			<p>She shook her head, a spasm, a panicky twitch. "I—I d-don't think you did..." she managed after a moment.</p>
			<p>"Maybe not." Achilles shrugged. "But hey, look on the bright side. That's the first time you've actually been <i>right</i> about me."</p>
			<p>It made sense, at last: the impulse purchases routed almost unconsciously through anonymous credit lines, the plastic sheeting and portable incinerator, the dynamic-inversion sound damper. The casual snoop into Alice's master calendar and contact list. That was the great thing about being a 'lawbreaker on the Trip; when everybody knew you were chained to the post, nobody bothered putting up fences around the yard.</p>
			<p>"Please," Alice quavered, her lip trembling, her eyes bright and terrified. "Achilles..."</p>
			<p>Somewhere in the basement of Desjardins's mind, a last rusty link crumbled to powder.</p>
			<p>"Call me Killjoy," he said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
